
Level of respect.Elaborating on what's already been mentioned, the level of respect to be shown based on age or societal ranking is much, much more strict in Korea.I attended an university in Japan and went to Seoul as an exchange student for one year, and in the following situations I felt great difference between the two neighboring countries:1. Daily InteractionsIn Japan it is considered rude to ask someone for their age, especially to a woman.  However in Korea this is one of the first questions asked bluntly upon meeting someone.  Whenever I answered with my age, it was usually followed with "Oh, call me oppa (older brother or male acquaintance) then", or "I'll call you my unni (older sister or female acquaintance)", or whatever phrase that determined the clear age distinction between us two.  I became friends with other students only a couple months younger than me, yet it took weeks of me requesting them every single time not to use formal speech with me until they actually took heed.  Even then they told me it felt weird to talk to someone older than them in an informal manner.  In my university in Japan I talked informally to my close senpai even when I was a freshman and they were a senior, so to be faced with such resistance when we were practically the same age was interesting.2. Family InteractionsIn Korea, formal speech is not only intended for classmates but for family as well.  While young girls would oftentimes talk to their parents with informal speech, it is more common for older women as well as young to old men (especially those that have already completed their military service) to talk to their parents with formal speech.  I knew some men that talked to their mother informally, but this was never the case with their father.  This was one difference I had a hard time wrapping my head around since Japanese people of my generation and my parents' generation don't use honorifics to talk to family.Whenever I heard Koreans speaking formally to their family I couldn't help but feel like there was a certain unfamiliarity and distance, but to Koreans it is a form of necessary respect and a sign of maturity.  English doesn't exactly have honorifics so it may be hard to understand the awkwardness I felt, but it is basically like saying "What did you have to dine, father?" instead of casually asking "What'chu eat for dinner dad?".3. Drinking EtiquetteRespect is evident even where alcohol is involved.  This is true for Japan as well, but in Korea there are many more rules to abide by.  For example, in Japan you should not start drinking until an official round of cheers has been made, and especially for company dinners a junior should constantly be filling up the cup of someone their senior to ensure it will never go empty.In Korea, if one is filling the cup of their superior, they must use two hands to support the bottle.  Likewise, if someone is being poured a drink by their superior, they must make sure to lift the cup up with both hands and slightly bow their head.  This is the same in Japan as well, but frankly many people no longer do it, nor would superiors nowadays become necessarily offended.  Even when doing cheers in Korea the juniors must make sure that their cups are positioned lower than all the cups of their seniors, since otherwise it would be like implying that they are higher than them.  And lastly, when taking a sip the juniors must face sideways and away from their superiors.  Taking a sip while straight-on facing someone their senior is disrespectful.  However, despite the fact that Korea is much more strict and hierarchical in the above aspects, Koreans are much more welcoming in their personal space.  For the Japanese this is still widely seen as something quite sacred that should not be trespassed without consent, which is why the Japanese would greet each other bowing their heads slightly instead of with direct physical contact.  On the other hand in Korea men would salute each other with a nice, firm hand shake.  Also, in Japan it's not too common to hug your friends and family.  Koreans are more friendly in this aspect and would happily embrace you.  My girl friends in Korea often used to hold my hand or cross their arms with mine, while in Japan only romantically involved "girlfriends" would do so.There are many more cultural differences of course, but these are the most significant differences I felt during my day to day life in Korea.(For other differences, see: Serina's answer to What is the difference between South Korean girls and Japanese girls?)
While I've lived in Japan for a long time, I haven't lived in Korea before. However, I've visited Korea before, and I've taught Korean students at an international school.  I also have a few Korean friends, so I figure I may be able to make a contribution here with some of my observations:1) Food:Japanese flavors tend to be subtle and understated.  With sushi, for example, the emphasis is on quality and freshness, with just an occasional kick of wasabi giving some spice.   Presentation is very organized, and on a tray you will see a main dish with a splatter of many small plates, all with their special places.  In Korea, you will see a main dish surrounded by small plates as well, but they are more organized chaos. Like a bowl of bibimbap, everything gets thrown together and all mixed up. The flavors tend to be very strong and in your face, there’s very little subtlety with kimchi.Also, when ordering predetermined courses of food, people in Japan have little freedom.  If the restaurant/cafe has two sets of lunches/breakfast choices, say set A and set B, you'd better stick with the program either way--you absolutely can't try to switch the items between the two sets or you'd be refused service.  Call it respect to the chef or lacking in flexibility, but you can't mess up a pre-determined set.    I sense there's a lot more freedom in how you arrange your meals/course of dishes in Korea.   2) Fashion:  Both Japanese and Korean ladies put on a lot more make-up than say the Chinese (in the latter's case, I think the Mao years have had a great impact because women were taught to love military outfits instead of feminine attires).   When go out, many of the ladies from both Korea and Japan are dressed to the nines.  But if one must pinpoint, I think the Japanese ladies put more emphasis on quality and subtlety than what's really trendy.  Individual styles are also emphasized.  Korean ladies tend to follow fashion trends a lot more closely.    Also,  plastic surgeries are a lot more common in Korea than Japan. (By some estimates, the country has the highest rate of plastic surgery per capita in the world, according to a recent NYT article. One poll reported by the BBC puts the figure at fifty per cent or higher for Korean women in their twenties.)  Good looks seem to figure more prominently for the young Koreans than say the Japanese.  Below is an article about this phenomenon:http://www.newyorker.com/magazin...3) Education: Both Japanese and Korean parents place tremendous emphasis on the value of education and test scores, although it seems to me competition is even more fierce in Korea than in Japan.    Cram schools are both very popular in both countries.  I learned the expression "kyoiku mama" in Japan, which essentially means moms who're overly zealous towards the academic/career success of their kids.  But then I had no idea how these "kyoiku mama" would pale so much in comparison with the Korean moms.   When I was teaching Mandarin in New Delhi, I had quite a few Koreans in my classes.   I was forewarned by other teachers that there's this thing called "Korean fail." I didn't know what they were talking about until I was faced with a very good Korean student who asked me to help her upgrade her "A-" grade to an "A," adding she'd do extra homework/project if necessary.   I said "Wait, an A- is a very good grade.  Besides, I can't allow you to do extra work in order to inflate your grade. Can't do that."  And my student became very disappointed.   It was much later that I found out from another student that my first student was worried how she was going to explain to her mom about her "less than perfect" grade, especially given her best friend, another ace student of mine, was getting a perfect "A" in my class.    Evidently comparing grades of kids between parents is very common, and many Korean parents demand nothing less than an A from their kids, or they would see it as a failure. I also once tutored a Korean girl for Mandarin, and her mom made me promise not to mention this to anyone at school, lest her daughter would lose the edge of appearing "super smart" in the eyes of their friends.   I'm not saying Japanese parents are not competitive, but compared to the lengths the Korean parents would go in driving the success of their kids, they certainly pale in comparison. 4. Seniority and Confucian values:Both cultures place great emphasis on seniority (much more so than the Chinese), but again, the Koreans take this one step further than the Japanese.   I heard from a Chinese friend who has studied in Korea that being asked for one's age when you first meet a Korean is very common because this is the first step in establishing ranking/seniority.  I was told if you're even born one day younger than a Korean, you must take to using the honorific expressions at all times to the person.  In Japan, senoirty is important but people around the same age are more relaxed about not using the honorifics.   Similarly, in Korea,  formalities are taken much more seriously not only in the work environment, but towards family members as well, especially during formal events such as the Lunar New Year/Harvest Moon Festival, where deep bows are taken to older members of the family, and at a wedding where the groom will kneel and bow to the bride's parents thanking them for agreeing to the marriage.  Perhaps in part Japan is more westernized, deep bows are mostly seen towards senior members in a company/those who have a higher ranking than you, or towards customers, and not towards family members any more.   Confucian values, it appears, are taken very differently between the two cultures.  The emphasis is quite different. To most Koreans, Lunar New Year celebration is a time for one of the biggest family get-togethers, and formalities are taken seriously during such occasions.
Thanks for asking.I haven't lived in Japan long enough to add more to the excellent observations by Karen Ma and Quora User, but I wanted to provide some historical context to the cultural differences. Short version: My personal guess is that Koreans and Japanese are alike in many ways, but much of the cultural differences we have can be traced to how we began to treat craftsman and merchants differently in the late pre-industrial era. Korea suffered from Confucian fundamentalism which looked down on crafts and commerce while Japan never did.More detailed version:Korea and Japan are very much alike. There was a great deal of travel and exchange between Koreans and Japanese throughout history. A Korean monk is said to have painted one of the most famous murals in Japan. When Tang China was on the rise and expanding during the 7th century, two Korean kingdoms, Koguryo and Paekche, were defeated after long wars. Paekche was allied with Japanese lords (I don't think they had a unified Emporer at the time) and Tang forces fought and defeated a Japanese expeditionary force on the west coast of Korea. Many of Paekche's ruling families escaped to Japan and sought refuge there. So we probably share more genes than we would ever admit (both nations have gone through periods of beliefs in "racial purity" that are unsupported by facts).Some of the differences can be traced from the Chosun dynasty which ruled Korea from  15th century until 1910. The rulers were radical Confucian fundamentalists. These reflected the Confucian fundamentalism of the Ming in China. These rulers looked down on craftsman and merchants while having romantic ideas about farming and "working the land." What was worse was that Ming China stopped trading and Korea followed suit.This was a catastrophe for the arts and crafts and commerce in Korea. There are records that the palace during King Sejong's reign (this was actually a good time of relative peace and good harvests) had run out of the blue dye they needed to make the blue-green celadon pottery that was famous during the Koryo dynasty (the dynasty that preceded Chosun). Apparantly the dye was imported from China. They rationed it only for utensils used for the ancestral rites of the royal family. Chosun dynasty Korea developed white porcelein that did not require the blue dye. The style is austere compared to the pottery of the Koryo dynasty - ironically it has a very modern minimalist feel!Seoul, which was the largest and most prosperous city in Korea, was a small town of only about 100,000 inhabitants until the 19th century. There are records that indicate that although Koreans maintained subsistence agriculture, except during the catastrophic Imjin wars (Toyotomi Hideyoshi's invasion of Korea) and Qing invasions, the volume of commerce and crafts generally declined throughout the Chosun era. We were happy to be a Hermit Kingdom.In contrast, Japan never adopted such fundamentalism and commerce and crafts continued to develop during that period. Even when Japan closed its ports during the Sakoku period of relative isolation, although trade was highly regulated, it did not close down all together - for example there was a Dutch trading post and factory complex in Nakasaki. There was a time when Edo was the largest city in the world with a population over 1 million by the late 1700's.In particular, craftsmen and merchants were never made into second-class citizens as in Korea. Japanese arts and crafts developed in many ways while Korea was limited to austere minimalism. Right before Hideyoshi's invasion of the 1590s, the Korean king sent two emissaries to Japan. The first emissary noted the extensive commerce and irrigation systems used in Japanese farming. He wrote about how Japanese towns had extensive inn's for merchants and travelers and how they used coin money. He also noted how the ladies dressed colorfully. He noted that these were all signs that there was wealth and Japan had resources to support a large army and were no longer  backwater 'barbarians.' He warned that Hideyoshi had managed to unify Japan, and now that they were no longer were fighting civil wars, they could mount an invasion of Korea and China.The second emissary saw the same thing but saw cultural decay instead of a vibrant economy that could support an invasion of the Asian mainland. He noted that there was alot of prostitution in the inns and the ladies wearing colorful dresses in the streets was a sign of promiscuity or unlady-like behavior. He thought the Japanese were un-Confucian barbarians and not a threat Korea would have difficulty handling. Sadly, the second emissary's views were how the majority of Confucian fundamentalist Korean leaders saw Japan. They would be completely shocked when Hideyoshi's forces, armed with devastating flintlock muskets would overrun Korea.So even before Japan imported industrial age tech before Korea and China and colonized Korea and invaded China in the 19th and 20th century, Japan had a much more vibrant economy and diverse crafts from the 1400s on. My own conjecture is that many of the cultural differences between Korea and Japan can be traced to the way we diverged in our attitudes towards craftsmen and merchants during the late pre-industrial period. This probably colors our attitudes towards careers and social status to this day. Of course in the modern post-industrial internet global supply chain age, we seem to be converging and mashing our cultures in ways we could never imagine.
There's saying about East Asia, that would help in understanding the three:"Korea chose capitalism when they are socialists by nature. China chose communism when they are capitalists by nature.Japan chose totalitarianism when they are individualists by nature."I'd say main difference is at how people in general treat their egos; how they measure happiness and success.Koreans measure a success and happiness through how they are perceived by others, while Japanese value success and happiness through personal satisfactions, hence the Otaku culture.
I am a Japanese and just met some Korean people here in Japan.  I didn't study Korean culture, and this is just what I felt by talking to Korean friends and people.  It's often impolite to ask people's age when meeting for the first time in Japan, but one of my Korean friend told me that they ask people's age right away because they have to know which is older.  He also told me that even just one year old difference means a lot.  We Japanese respect older people too, but I think the manners toward older people are strickter in South Korea.  I also heard that even if the people are of the same age, they talk in polite way (존댓말) and to talk in friendly way (반말), both of  them have to agree to talk in that way, which I don't think happens so much in Japan unless we meet people in business.  This is not a cultural difference, but I found it interesting how to show respect when we drink with someone older or superior.  After doing "cheers", Korean people turn their back from the superior person and drink (maybe they should finish the drink right away?  I'm not sure and appreciate comments), and we Japanese put our glasses lower than those of superior people when we do "cheers".