
This is a bit complicated, so I’ll divide it up a bit.Historically, we respect China and see them as a fellow East Asian country. Not many Koreans learn that in depth into China’s loose rule of Korea, but we do know a lot of our culture was imported from China(Confucian values, Buddhism, architectural structures, Hanja, etc) to be ‘Koreanized’ here and that many higher-class Koreans used to study in China before the modern times. We also know that Korea shares a lot of cultural similarities to China, so I suppose you can say this forms a certain sense of East Asian kinship.Economically, we see China as a powerhouse and a rising global power. A lot of Koreans, especially the privileged, are studying Chinese or study abroad/work in China and Hong Kong. The University of Hong Kong and Beijing are especially popular, if I remember correctly. I know at least 5 people around me who have taken the HSK exams, and 3 that have studied abroad in China including my own cousin. We are more likely to see China to have the same amount of, or at least the potential of economic power on par with the US.As for tourism, it really depends on who you ask, and what experiences they’ve had with Chinese tourists. The tourism industry as a whole is pretty open towards Chinese tourists, seeing they’re one of our biggest sources of income in that area. We’re of course flattered that you’d make time to visit. However, there are a few Chinese tourists who don’t really paint a great picture of China - for example, relieving themselves on the streets, crowding, trashing, etc. Us Koreans really don’t have the right to complain, seeing a lot of us create the same image of Korea when travelling abroad, but it’s true that there is a slight condescending attitude among Koreans towards Chinese tourists.Illegal immigrants……well, the illegal part pretty much speaks for itself. A lot of Chinese illegal immigrants tend to be Korean Chinese, and many go towards fraud and cheating. Many as in, “if there is a fraud call, it’s probably a Korean Chinese person” assumption many. I’ll be honest, general Koreans look down on Korean Chinese because of their general poverty levels and crime, not to mention the fact that many are illegal in the first place.Politically, we’re pretty ambivalent about China’s involvement with North Korea I’d say, especially since the Nordpolitik efforts in the 1980s. Our image of China with North Korea is mostly one of an exasperated older brother trying to control a spoiled younger brother. The government tends to be more positive towards China, especially when compared with, well, Japan. But recently there’s been some clashes over THAAD, and while the Korean public are upset that we’re risking relations with China among other reasons over the issue, the government itself seems to be eager to side with the US on most things. The South Korean government is aware that North Korea’s fall/reunification with the South/development is not in the Chinese government’s best interests, and are likely to be wary about that. It doesn’t help that China tends to send North Koreans back, abusing a few human rights issues.Finally, there’s the internet trolls. Existing in every country, they’re an extreme minority who believe their racist opinions reflect the opinions of their entire population or just get a twisted sense of pleasure out of being ignorant. A lot of Korean trolls write things about China/Japan/etc on the web and embarrass us as a country. Think: “chinese/japanese peeple is all dirty/two-faced/rude/disgusting/[input some other cliche insult and racist word]. we dont want you here!”. There’s probably also going to be trolls, Korean or not, who hate Korea and thus try to create a negative image of us online. Think: ”koreans is all rasist so dont visit that dirty/two-faced/rude/said above country! they hate china/japan” or “im korean and this country is horible i want to leeve” etc - Note the generally bad grammar and spelling mistakes. Unfortunately, these people are a vocal minority. Fortunately, these people are a vocal minority a.k.a. do not actually represent Korea as a whole. Trust me, it’s better to ignore those trolls, no matter how often we come upon them in the web. In fact, the only reason we see trolls online so often despite them being a minority is probably because most of them don’t have a life offline, and thus spend their time venting online.Okay, this is getting a bit long. To conclude, we see China to be a country with a lot of potential for development, socially and economically, especially seeing history shows how much influence it had over East Asia before. Although international relations are strained at the moment, let’s be honest here: I doubt any government really likes another. Any way or another, I doubt much of us South Koreans are going to have a reason to actually hate or fear China.
The questions like “Do this country’s people like something?” is tricky to answer because the answer is “Depends on people.”Personally, I don’t dislike China. I think China has a beautiful culture and great industries with lots of potentials there. People are brilliant, and they work hard. Although there is a tension between two countries at the moment, I don’t see the reason to fear China, and I think we can be good friends to each other.
Became Korean for economic reasons involving support of my Korean family. With more than 20 years experience with Korean culture, I can say that Koreans have a warm liking and respect for  the Chinese; as a matter of fact, my Korean daughter will soon marry a Chinese gentleman. One of the proudest boast any Korean can make is to claim fluently in Chinese.  Expressions in Korean 한자 "Hanja" are the Chinese transcription for their fairly recent and super amazing phictophonemic (my word for the) alphabet that uses symbols  to show mouth-tongue positions to use in order to generate proper linguistic sound.  Basically, the Korean language sprung from Chinese, and simplified by a genius King in the 1400s when his court of scholars invented Hangukah 한국어 as a way for the agrarian culture to have their own way of communicating; all of this literacy without having to learn thousands of different Chinese pictograms. So Koreans (both North and South) think quite highly of Chinese, their linguistic history and cultural influence, a laudable posture standing in diametric opposition to Japanese influence.   마이클 교사
if you mean during the Han dynasty, the peninsula wasn’t part of that terratory it was what is not china/russia, as the northern kingdoms did not include the peninsula (3 kingdoms).Korea doesn’t really associate China with north korea anymore.the average korean probably has a positive view on China as china provides a lot of high tech jobs for koreans to fulfill, i have several family members go to china often on business from korea for electrical engineering. China also provides Korea HUGE amounts of money for K-pop and k-drama to the point that it is basically marketed towards non-koreans like china and indonesia etc. (the big population countries).many young koreans now are learning mandarin for future business purposes. less and less youngsters are learning english now. or it is less of a big deal so people don’t talk about it as much, im not sure.
The answer is yes. South Koreans don't like Chinese( or you can use hate). I read news and comments from South Korean websites regularly. They despise Chinese for sure but it's not abnormal. Rich countries look down on poor countries. It's typical and natural. Anti-Chinese sentiment is very strong among South Koreans ( at least online). Sometimes I wonder why they hate Chinese so much that even Japanese pale into insignificance when compared with Koreans. For some peculiar reason, Chinese Japanese Koreans can never establish rapport with each other. Chinese hate Japanese and South Koreans Japanese hate South Koreans and Chinese South Koreans hate Japanese and Chinese