
Like others, I have my pros and cons. But unlike others, I have mich more cons and thinking about immigrating to America or other English speaking country.ProsAmazing internet connection.They have the best internet speed (23.7 mbps) in the world.The delivery culture.Can deliver anything. Your weekly shopping list, hamburgers, etc.Food.I like the food here.Conveince in shopping.Like I said in previous reason, delivery and close proximity to local shopping malls and convenience stores.No tipping for everything.I don't have to unwilling tip every waiter or delivery man everytime I use their service.Metric system.Metric system is the best.I have friends and family hereIt's kinda sad to leave them again.ConsTerrible education systemEducation system grants you 6 chances to correct your grade in one year in middle school. Only 6. This gotta be a joke.Also, incomptent teaching staff, terrible eudcation policies failing to engage students, and too heavily focused on math.Widespread corruptionThere is corruption everywhere in the government. It's much more serious than other developed world.Outdated Confucius ideologyOlder people (even those who are only a year older than me) demand more respect and more obedience. For me to respect someone extra, they need to do something noble in a regular basis. They also make quite stupid demands too.Pressure of working overtime from collegues and superiorsIn order to “please” their bosses. Korean bosses are weird in this way, they don't go home after 6:00 and silently demand inferiors to stay with him/her. If you refuse, you receive bad reviews from the HR, thus getting no promotion, or even getting fired. Also, your collegues bad-mouth you if you “step out of the line” by refusing to stay overtime.Overtime pays extra after 8:00 PM.This is unacceptable for me, if the company is making me stay late, working extra but giving me no extra paygrade for that, I'm leaving that place. But the sad thing is, almost every company in Korea do this.Little to no job opportunities to people with no prestigious college degree.Low minimum wage & failure to pay up to minimum wage.6470 KRW ($5.63) per hour. Way too little to pay for college tuitions, to eat a decent meal, or to do anything moderately priced. And even worse, many businesses do not pay up to this minimum wage.Have to live in apartments most of the timesThis comes from high land prices and population density. It's dull to continuously live in an apartment.The yes-man cultureOnce again, many Korean bosses demand ridiculous things like saying yes to everything they say, even if it's damaging to others and self-destructive. I tried to correct some superiors (I'm a minor so my teachers), and they responded with condescending glare and rude gestures.Lack of ability from the current administrationSeriously, the current administration can't do anything correctly. First thing was failing to prevent a ship from sinking by faulty inspections and having incomptent, cowardly captain, failing to contain MERS from spreading, trying to limit free speech by calling reasonable critcism and harmless jokes into “verbal abuse,” and receive bribes & exploited from valuable tax dollars.Does not fit with my moral codes or my way of lifePoor air qualityYear-round Asian Dust, nearly permanent fine dust and smogs.Lack of time to do anythingOvertime, terrible education system, pressure from society is preventing many people from taking a moment to rest.I'd move immediately if I had a chance.
It’s South Korea you’re talking about right? Because our neighbors to the north probably won’t be able to answer you so you’re going to have to try another venue.The reactionary answer is no, as there are plenty of things to hate about my country. If North Koreans don’t kill us, it’s highly likely that it’s going to be a car or the poor air quality. Plus the population density is downright ridiculous and so one gets to experience thisat least TWICE a day. What’s not to like?But then again, I calmed myself down and really gave this question some thought. Then I remembered something miraculous that happened here back when I was a teenager that reminded me what a great nation this was. Let’s take a time machine back to 1998.The entire Korean society was in total disarray as the nation was going through a credit default in 1997 and asked the IMF for a loan. Have you ever had a default on a loan and/or been around a person who has? How about being in a nation that has? I can’t begin to express in words the grief and despair everyone felt during this time.But something miraculous happened in late 1997 and early 1998 that shocked the world and ultimately propelled us out of the mess. Here is a beautiful story about a peoples’ ultimate selflessness.Do you see that lady with the baby? She is depositing the small amount of gold goods she had (probably jewelry received during marriage) in the bank for Korean currency, which at the time was barely worth the paper it was printed on.This totally goes against her interest as she would have benefited greatly had she held onto it. But this wasn’t a one off thing. Do you see that line? People were lining up to give in their prized possessions for love of community. The selflessness that these people exhibited ended up amassing about 227 tons of gold which at the time was worth about 2.2 billion USD.I’m sure this money in itself did wonders to bring back faith on the Korean currency. Companies were able to borrow again thereby stimulating the economy and we ultimately got out of this mess fairly quickly.But I don’t think it’s gold itself that ultimately saved us. It was events like this that epitomized our people’s devotion to one another that kicked economic recovery into high gear. The selfless idea that we’re all in this together, and I was going to let go some of mine so that we can all get out of this mess, was so pervasive in our society that this form of sacrifice was commonplace. I know, because I saw it first hand.Sure, there were a**holes even then that sought to profiteer from this enterprise. Those few individuals are what give the majority of us a bad name. But I find those kinds of people in all societies so it’s nothing new.But this selflessness I saw in my people is something truly unique and special that I’ll treasure for the rest of my life. Do I enjoy living in Korea? You bet I do.
Yes and no. Like everywhere else on earth, there are pros and cons to living in Korea. The pros outweigh the cons by a lot, but that’s a matter of opinion and circumstance.Pros:cheap, fast, reliable public transportationlow rate of violent crimereasonable cost of livingexcellent infrastructure (roads, public buildings, fast internet, 4G/LTE everywhere, etc)convenient services, e.g. free delivery on groceries, short waiting times for doctors, etc.Cons:very dense population density. You have to plan outings carefully, especially if you’re travelling by carfor English speakers like myself, a very difficult languagepoor air quality (it’s not bad where I live most of the time, but sometimes I can’t, for example, go out for a run)no houses, at least outside of rural areas (unless you’re very wealthy). Part of this is because of population density, but part of it is because Koreans seem to prefer apartments. I’d kill for a house with a yard, but there really aren’t any suburbs here- it’s either dense areas of apartment blocks or rural farm communities, with nothing in between.homogeneity. Outside of trendy areas like Magwon-dong, Yeonhee-dong, Seorae Maeul, Itaewon, and so on, everything is kind of the same: cell phone shop, eyeglasses shop, barbeque restaurant, Baskin Robbins, cell phone shop, eyeglasses shop, barbeque restaurant, Baskin Robbins, cell phone shop, eyeglasses shop, barbeque restaurant, Baskin Robbins, and on and on it goes. Much of the country looks the same.
It was a pretty mixed experience. I don’t live there anymore, so what I observed and did might be considered ‘outdated’ today, but I still have a lot of good and bad memories of it to this day. I spent my years there as a middle and high school student (though the schools I went to were pretty shit, but then again, the city I lived in was apparently a mob haven).My daily life in middle school;. Get up at roughly 5:30 or 6 in the morning, take a shower, eat a quick simple breakfast, brush my teeth, get dressed and catch the bus by 7 or so. The ride to school took about 15–20 minutes. Classes didn’t start till 8:30, but I deliberately went in early to avoid getting caught for my hair being too long and ragged about it. Since the classroom was pretty empty until about 7:45ish, it gave me ample time to decide what kind of snack I should buy for my crush at the time and sneak it in her desk.. Classes throughout the day. I think they must’ve lasted anywhere between 45min to an hour. I don’t remember anymore. We had 10 minute breaks in between every class. Most kids barely paid attention. Some slept through them. Others passed notes to one another. Then there’s always a few guys who cause a hell of a riot, much to everyone’s laughter. Teachers also went around whacking you for whatever infraction you pulled off, big or small.. Lunch by 12:30. Seniors go first, then the juniors and finally the freshmen. It was pretty nice, though everyone ate super fast. By the time it’s the afternoon, a lot of students feel sleepy and doze off in class. But a lot of teachers hardly care.. End of school at 3:30 (or 4:30 on Thursdays). Take the bus home, I go to my dad’s office to play on his PC or hang out with friends at the town center, whether at the noraebang or PC bang. Sometimes we just hung around the area. At times, we’d hang at my dad’s office and order Chinese food like jjajangmyun and sweet & sour pork or fried chicken.. Dinner at 6 or 7. The rest of the remaining day? Right up till 10:30PM I exercised real fucking hard. At one point I ran 10km within an hour on the treadmill. Sometimes I’d be at the golf range with dad.. 11PM or so, rest at dad’s office again, sometimes have a small late snack. Occasionally one or two of his friends came over for a drink and fried chicken. Went to bed at 12.I honestly liked middle school, despite its hurdles here and there. But, for the most part, it was tolerable. Then again, I was just a young teenager who didn’t have to deal with the shit adults live with at the time.High school was basically the same routine, though I spent the first semester in the dorms and wasn’t as socially active for a variety of reasons. We had ‘study sessions’ that lasted up to 9 - students living in the dorms had to do this whether they liked it or not, though local students could go home as soon as it was 3:30.In all honesty, it was a pretty mundane life. I did visit Seoul frequently in the weekends since my mother’s family lived there (and since Seoul is my birthplace - thus my hometown) and I absolutely loved being with them.What I liked the most were;Fast delivery of ordered food and stuff I bought online (mostly clothes and shoes). Food can get by as quick as 15 minutes. Bought something from the internet? Most of the time, I had it delivered in 2–3 days without problem.The fast/street food was absolutely mind-numbingly delicious. Local stuff like the fried chicken, jjajangmyun, ddeok-bokki, boong-uh-bbang, wang mandu….I’d take that over whatever is offered where I live now.Cheap-as-fuck transport. 800 won for a student taking a bus ride, no matter how long the distance? That kind of price is unfathomable where I live. Fucking A.A larger variety of clothes and shoes to pick + more affordable. While there were prices that weren’t much different, I noticed that via online, huge discount sales, coupons ranging from 10–30% were frequent and a lot of the domestic brands were just as neatly designed. Books, comics and all kinds of other items were also comparatively cheaper too, which partly explains why my mom still orders a lot of stuff from Korea online than buying local.Cheap-as-sin for the PC bangs/Internet cafe. I could spend hours and hours with my friends there, and it wouldn’t put a dent on my allowance.Excellent medical services, though I may be biased since the doctors I went to were my dad’s best friends dating back to high school who were top-notch in their jobs. One was a dermatologist and a cosmetic surgeon and the other was a GP based at Gangnam who also specialized in child and adoloscent psychology.Classes in middle school were fun simply because they were so chaotic. For the most part, everyone got along great and when I look at school dramas on TV, all I see is an extremely sanitized version of what I lived through. However, if I were to go back in time, I would definitely relive middle school in Korea again just to enjoy being a teenager for once.What I didn’t like however, was;School violence and bullying. I’ve wrote about this in Quora extensively, so I won’t beat a dead horse. It was horrendous and I have little belief that it’s changed much since my time. Sunbae/senior students can be particularly unforgiving if you pissed them off the wrong way, even by accident/unintentionally. Use of excessive physical force by older students is not uncommon in schools simply to ‘discipline’ the younger ones. The shittier the school and kids are, the worse it is.Awkward family reunions. A lot of my older relatives didn’t get along very well, so Chuseok/Thanksgiving was always very awkward at best. At worst, very, very heated arguments. Apparently when everyone was younger, things got pretty physical too.Not safe past midnight. I lived most of the time at a city that was reputed for being a haven for mobs and delinquents in the Gyeonggi Province. Of course, our neighborhood was safe, but the town center (which I lived only 10 minutes away by foot) was often crawling with mobsters in hours beyond midnight. One time I was walking to the sauna at a late night, some punks burst out dragging an older man and beat him to a pulp with baseball bats right in front of me.Shitty education system. I went to pretty shit schools, so my opinion is a bit biased here and not representative - but I have to say this; most teachers didn’t seem to care about teaching and turned a blind eye to bullying, including even incidents that would be borderline criminal. We were taught at least a dozen compulsory subjects, if not more. Toilets even lacked toilet paper.Summer. This is a personal preference thing and I’ll say it simply - I fucking hate summer. The weather during June to August is unbearably hot and humid, and September is only slightly tolerable. I lost a lot of sleep during those times of the year. Seldom went outside during the day, preferring to stay indoors.Excessive respect demanded by elders. It’s one thing to respect your elders, but I don’t believe they should be treated like kings when they don’t do anything to earn respect itself. This goes hand-to-hnd with the sunbae-hubae culture in Korea. I lost count on how many times I almost lost my temper at my grandmother in this regard (then again, I wasn’t a saint myself).Probably gonna update this later on.
Answering: Do you enjoy living in Korea? Why?With the tags: Living in Korea, Enjoyment, North Korea, South Korea, KoreaYes, I do enjoy living here. I am a Canadian from a small town and had some minor adjustments to make - my wife would say I still do - but I have mostly enjoyed my time here.I lived near a Provincial Park in Ontario - Algonquin Park - and love canoeing. I could canoe here but it would take a lot of effort finding clubs and such. Even so, I do like the hiking here and have seen wild deer, badgers, boar, snakes and many birds. There is wildlife here if you want to explore.I am not a nightlife person so if you want to know about clubs and dancing, I cannot help. I do like the occasional trip to the singing room.I now live in Incheon, near North Korea. I am not afraid. Neither am I a tough guy posturing. I think the risk of war is smaller than that of dangers from driving or engaging in other pursuits which I do by choice.