
I'm not sure how to explain this in words, so I'll use pictures.A couple years ago, the following composite image was made by averaging celebrities' faces in South Korea, China/Taiwan, and Japan (in that order). It should be pretty clear what the differences in aesthetic standards are:Of course, people in those countries don't all look like that. To see how "the average woman" differs from celebrities, see this composite image of women from China, Korea, and Japan:(Source: Dienekes Anthropology)You may also be interested in the game Japochi, where you guess if a celebrity pictured is Chinese or Japanese. There seem to be some ordinary people's photos mixed in as well, but it should help you figure out what differences exist in the aesthetic standards of the three societies.Finally, as Quora User points out in her comment, keep in mind that beauty standards do change and affect one another. The photos of celebrities above represent beauty standards in the 2010s. Also, when Japanese pop culture dominated Asia, many Koreans and Chinese women followed Japanese beauty trends. Now that Korean pop culture dominates, many Japanese and Chinese follow Korean beauty standards, buy Korean beauty products, etc. Related: Why do Koreans find small heads more attractive than large heads?
Lets look at stars from each country who are considered beautiful in each country, and we will look at both women and men.Koreagirls- large but not too large eyes with double eyelids and aegyo-sal , aka fat underneath the eyes which is seen as cute. small nose and full lips. body should be of average height and slim and MUST be pale.Suzy:Seolhyun:Son Naeun:guys-For guys it depends as long as they are tall (180 cm+), pale, and generally good looking, leaning more towards “pretty boy” looks, meaning less masculine face with a 6 pack.TOP (overall)Nam Joo Hyuk (to teen girls) (6′2)China:girls- very westernized, pale, extremely large eyes, long pointy nose, and thin lips.Angela BabyFan bing bingguys- tall, tan skin is fine, and defined features? not too sure about this oneHuang XiaomingLuhan, top star (to teen girls) who has noticably very feminine featuresMen’s beauty in China is based on preference, as in Korea.Japangirls- light skin, high bridged nose, very petite, curly eyelashes, double eyelids. Very innocent lookingSatomi IshiharaNozomi Sasakiguys- extreme pretty boy, longish styled hair, delicate features, height does not matter as much in comparison to Korea and China.Koji SetoJin Akanishi
Of course, we can divide this question by gender.GirlsThere are some differences in preferred features. I must state clearly that these preferred features correlate very little with how the average people in these three countries actually look.For instance, in South Korea, the “upturned nose” is considered ideal for females. The tip has to be small, round, and the nostrils visible. Han Ga-in is considered the prototypical example and the plastic surgery goal.In China, a more prominent straight nose is generally preferred, like in the cases of Liu Yifei and Tong Liya.All three countries prefer eyes which are larger than average (for Asians), but China is the one that goes most overboard with celebrities having enormous eyes, and the pickiest regarding small eyes.Fan Bingbing is a 2010s Chinese style icon and she has ginormous eyes.Liu Yifei is a late 2000s most desirable starlet and she’s famous for having “tiny eyes” by Chinese celebrity standards.Overall, South Korea places much more emphasis on a youthful appearance, and are, in general, more embracing than Chinese of “East Asian beauty” (though not necessarily features common among actual Koreans). Chinese female beauty standards emphasize more of an “adult woman look” (though significantly less so than western beauty standards), and strive for more “European” looks, sometimes to excess.Even Jun Ji-hyun, a “mature sexy goddess” in South Korea has very much a baby face, with distinctly “East Asian” eyes, nose, and facial structure.On the other hand, comparable Chinese actresses in their 30s in general look more “European” and defined.Cecelia CheungYang MiJapanese female beauty standards are, in general, somewhat similar to those of South Korea, but with a pronounced emphasis on full protruding lips.Satomi IshiharaSee how thick that is, and how it goes forward from the jaw? In Japan, that’s good.South Koreans would prefer a more neutral look. Chinese would prefer a sunken mouth and thinner lips.There are also key differences in body shape preferences. Chinese prefer their female celebrities to be thin and 5′8′’+. Pretty much every female celebrity shorter than 5′6′’ claims to be at least 5′6′’ ….Lin Chi-ling of Taiwan, claims to be 5′9′’In South Korea, 5′6′’ is already an adequate height, though there is definitely also a preference for taller leggier girls, but slightly more emphasis on curves.Jun Ji-hyun, shorter but with a rack and a bootyIn Japan, typically cute and short is preferred, like 5′2′’, but curves are more readily accepted.Satomi Ishihara 5′2′’Kasumi Arimura 5′3′’Of course there are exceptions. Most notably, Aragaki Yui is like 5′7′’, but she’s touted as a giant and conspiracy theories of how she’s actually 5′10′’ circulate the Japanese internet.The one on the right, she may be be kawaii, but she’s hugeDudesHere, South Korea goes for the sweetest, most youthful look. This is the trend as of right now. For instance, in the mid 2000s, a more manly look was definitely in.Song Joong-ki and Kim Soo-hyun the most up and coming Korean actors of recent yearsVery much a sweet face, with less prominent features, boyish looks, and baby fat. Notice the rounded nose.In China, you can either roll Korean style, but with a slightly more well defined nose.Yang Yang… or you can go “European style” with deep set eyes and really strong nose.Yan Kuan, hot guyChen Kun, really hot guyIn Japan, a look that’s neither boyish nor mannish, but somewhat androgynous is more in. Long wavy hair is a mustHiro Mizushima, slayer of Japanese girl heartsMatsumoto Jun, agency professed heir to said agency’s professed 1990s male iconTamaki Hiroshi, my enemyAgain, notice the lips. In Japan, even for dudes, full protruding lips are very much attractive. Once again, Korea leans more towards neutral lips, and China leans more towards thin lips.As for body, long toned bodies are of course preferred. Japan, out of the three, is uniquely accepting of shorter guys. In Japan, 5′7′’-5′9′’ is just enough, but in South Korea and China, male celebrities tend to aim to be 6ft+, or so they say.
Disclaimer: I am not saying you have to have any of these to be considered beautiful in any of these countries. Please be respectful— I personally do not agree with many of them, but the reality is that they exist and millions of people emulate these looks.EyesKorea: Natural-looking deep double eyelids, although surgery is pretty common to “correct” monolids. Flat or “puffy” eyelids with the Aegyo-sal, or cute and puffy undereyes.China: Wide double eyelids, with or without “eye bags”.Japan: Curled eyelashes framing wide double eyelids or narrow eyes.EyebrowsKorea: Filled-in with brown or grayish-black, usually flat and straight with a little curve. A space not too close to the eyes is very nice, too.China: The movie-stars all have straight, filled-in eyebrows because it makes them look youthful.Japan: Shapely. Japanese people have a range of different eyebrows.NoseKorea: Modest-to-medium nose heights— not too high, or it seems unnatural. Upturned button noses are also adorable!China: A button nose with considerably sharp nose. I’ve had relatives tell me my nose is one that a lot of Chinese actresses pursue plastic surgery for a straight and high nose like mine. ;) I am flattered.Japan: High-bridged noses.LipsKorea: Koreans usually have naturally full lips, so there’s not a huge beauty standard here.China: Thin-lipped or plump for a doll-like appearance.Japan: Full lips.SkinKorea: Pale.China: Pale.Japan: Pale.Jawline and Face ShapeKorea: Egg-shaped without much definition— jutting cheekbones and the like are considered old-looking and far too stern.China: A tapered face with a v-shaped chin and high cheekbones.Japan: Tapered and soft.Body TypeKorea: Slender and small.China: Slender and delicate.Japan: Petite and skinny.
I'm not even sure how you'd answer that question. What's the difference of aesthetic standard among Netherlands, Sweden, and Finland? Or UK, France, and Germany? Or Texas, Louisiana, and Florida? Just asking so we have some idea what kind of answer you're looking for