
There is a Way to recover data from a rooted Android phone. No worry about it. Just remember that not to import any files into your phone for avoiding the overwritten.Then use Renew Android Data Recovery to help you get the data back. You can follow the steps as below. If you want to try, click the link to download the free trail version and see.Data Recovery for WinData Recovery for MacHow to Restore Data from a Rooted Android PhoneStep 1. Download and Run Android Data RecoveryDownload and run Android Data Recovery on your computer. Then connect your rooted Android phone to the computer.Step 2. Set Up Android VersionAfter connecting your phone with PC, you should enable USB debugging. Follow the direction below.1) For Android 5.0 or later/Android 4.2 to 4.4.4: Enter "Settings" > "About Phone" > Tap "Build number" for several times until "You are under developer mode" appears > "Settings" > "Developer options" > Check "USB debugging"2) For Android 3.0 to 4.1: Enter "Settings" > "Developer options" > Tick "USB debugging"3) For Android 2.3 or earlier: Go to "Settings" > "Applications" > "Development" to turn on "USB debugging"Step 3. Seltect Type of Data to RecoverNow you can select data you want to recover. If you decide to get back all the content from your Android, click "Select all" and then tap "Next".After you clicking "Next", check your phone whether a request pops up. Just click "Allow". Back to your computer and then check whether it gets into analyzing.Step 4. Preview and Recover Deleted Data from Root AndroidThis is the interface showing all your files in your phone. The orange words are lost files. If you only want to view lost data, you can turn off the icon on the middle to only display deleted items.Preview them and then choose data. After that, click "Recover". Then your lost files will come back. You can backup in your computer too.For your backup issue, I think it is better to backup your phone data to PC, check the link and have a look.
You will need data recovery software without it you will not be able to do it if you want you can read this article so you will get a brief idea -WHEN TO DO A DATA RECOVERY PROCESSData recovery is the process of restoring data that has been lost, accidentally deleted, corrupted or made inaccessible.When a file is accidentally deleted:Any file that’s deleted actually stays on your drive until it’s overwritten with another file. This means that if you act fast, you actually have a pretty good chance of getting the file back. In the case of file deletion.File Corrupted:If you’ve ever gotten one of the dreaded “corrupt hard drive” errors, you know how disheartening it can be. However, it’s still possible that data could be recovered. If you attach the hard drive to another computer, you might find that only the operating system has been corrupted, and that the rest of your data is fine—in this case, it’s just a matter of copying everything to another hard drive.File System Format Damage:Similar to deleting a file, formatting a file system destroys information about the previous files and structure of the disk, but the amount of data that’s erased depends on the system format.If Driver is Physically Damaged:Recovering files that have been deleted or formatted is one thing — getting files off of a drive that’s been damaged is another. While it doesn’t take impressive technical skills to install and run recovery software, dealing with a heavily damaged drive is best left to the professionals, as it usually requires that the drive be taken apart.When a hard drive fails because of physical damage, it can be related to a number of factors, such as a broken controller board or a crashed head. Occasionally these issues can be fixed by replacing the broken part, but in general, if there’s physical damage to the hard drive, you’re going to need some serious work done by the professionals.DATA RECOVERY IN KOLKATADifferent devices have different size of data drive however they are all the same and data recovery process is also same for each of them so now let us tell you how we perform data recovery in Kolkata.PENDRIVE DATA RECOVERYREASONS:There can be various issues that may turn your USB drive data inaccessible. This could happen –Pendrive is unmounted improperly from the port then it can lead to data corruption.Invalid data in the Master Boot Record (MBR) or Partition Boot Record (PBR) or directory structure on the USB drive.Due to physical Corruption or logical corruption.Hardware/physical issues are broken stems and connectors.Dead drives (no power supply).Broken circuit or NAND gate issue.Need to format, not accessible, and Dead Drives, etc.PENDRIVE DATA RECOVERY TECHNIQUE:For physical error such as broken connector, circuit board etc then the hardware needs to be replaced to repaired. Doing-it-yourself can lead to even worse situations. Better you get help from the experts in this area. You can hire any of the companies that are specialized in recovering the USB drive from physical corruption. They will easily get your hardware repaired using the special hardware and tools they have if you are looking for data recovery in Kolkata.For software related issue check our article on –FIXING CONNECTORS OF THE PENDRIVE:If there is an issue with the connectors you will receive messages or troubles that you after connecting the USB. Common error messages are “Please Insert Disk into Removable Disk” or “USB Device Not Recognized or Malfunctioned“, “you need to format the disk before using it”.If the silver USB connector is broken or the circuit board is damaged it leads to power supply cut-off to the USB. In such case, soldering and circuit repair are required. It’s not advised to do it yourself as if anything goes wrong, you may permanently lose access to your USB.LOGICAL ISSUES:Scan the problems using Windows:Insert the USB drive into the USB port of your systemGo to My Computer>Removable Disk Icon.Right click the Removable Disk Icon and open its PropertiesClick on the Tools tab.Click Check Now button.You will be given two check disk options “Automatically fix file system errors” and “Scan for and attempt recovery of bad sectors”.Check both check boxes.Click Start. This will initiate the scanning process.Click Close after the scan process is completed.If you are using windows 7 then carry out the following steps to repair the USB Flash Drive:Insert the USB drive into the USB port of your systemGo to My Computer>Removable Disk Icon.Right click the Removable Disk Icon and open its PropertiesClick on the Tools tab.Click “Rebuild” buttonLet the scan process get completed. Close the scan window once it’s completed.Right-click the icon of the USB flash drive and “Eject”. Then remove the drive from the USB port.HARD DISK, EXTERNAL HARD DISK, SSD, SD CARD DATA RECOVERY IN KOLKATAThough the name of the drives are different the data recovery process of every drive is similar so now let us discuss how to do a data recovery of hard disk, external hard disk, SSD, SD Card.NOTE: Only for SD card you will need a Card reader which you can connect with your Desktop/Laptop.Step One: Assemble Your Tools and Examine The Drive’s Condition:The first thing to do is make sure you have the tools required to connect this drive to another computer safely. Ideally, you’ll have some kind of SATA/IDE to USB cable or USB drive enclosure or sled that you can mount the drive into and connect it to your computer easily. Sure, if you have a desktop and like getting your hands dirty you can try to install the drive as an internal one, but an external connection is faster and easier. READ MORE
Hey, don’t worry too much about it. There are many ways to get them back. Ensure not use your phone after losing data. Any new data written into your phone might overwrite your lost data and make them unrecoverable. Take easy. Samsung data recovery is not a big problem. Here are one related article and video you can follow.The Best Way to Perform Samsung Galaxy S3 Contact RecoverySamsung Galaxy S7/S7 Edge Data RecoveryHow to Backup Samsung Galaxy S7 DataThoroughly Recover Data from SamsungJihosoft Samsung Data Recovery allows you thoroughly recover data from Samsung internal memory as well as external SD card.Supported Different Data Loss ScenariosYou can retrieve Samsung data from different data loss circumstances like factory reset, accidental deletion, virus attack, ROM flash, system update etc.Restore & Export Data without Quality LossIt enables you retrieve deleted photos, videos, audio on Samsung in original quality, recover & print SMS, contacts, call history, WhatsApp messages in multiple formats.Preview Samsung Data before RecoveryIt is capable of previewing data on Samsung freely and selectively before the recovery.
Coolmuster Samsung Data Recovery did it. I got all photos and videos back to my Samsung galaxy s4, all 100% quality. Supports Samsung galaxy s3/s4/s5/s6,Samsung note etc.Samsung Data Recovery