
So your question is really broad and can be about the realities of everyday living or about Korean society in general etc. I'm gonna give you an answer from the perspective of a foreigner (I'm Singaporean Chinese) who is living there. I am relatively fluent in Korean, meaning I can handle everyday errands in Korean without breaking a sweat, so that will make my experience different from say, a foreigner who does not speak Korean. Living in Seoul is sooooo convenient that each time I leave Seoul to travel/go home, I find myself suffering withdrawal symptoms.Subway trains arrive on the dot, and even during non-peak hours the wait is never longer than a 5-6 minute wait. Screens overhead will show you which station the next train is at and track its movement as it travels to your station. Transfers can be confusing at first, but once you get the hang of it you appreciate how you can literally get anywhere. Buses take you almost everywhere (there are two kinds, the ones that travel within a certain district, and those that take you across districts/across the Han river). Most bus stops have a screen telling you how long the wait is for the next bus, and even if the wait is 10-15 minutes on a winter's day, IT IS OKAY BECAUSE THE SEATS ARE HEATED. Bus lanes are fixed, and hence buses are almost never stuck in traffic jams (I have yet to experience a traffic jam on a bus anyway- the bus whizzes by, and I sit in it smiling and counting cars that are stuck). SEE BELOW. Taxis are everywhere, mostly. And very affordable (unlike in Singapore where I come from). As a student living off a monthly allowance, I definitely feel more of a pinch in my pockets when I take a taxi at home than when in Seoul. Convenience stores are also EVERYWHERE. GS25, CU, Ministop, 7-11 etc. And they have many many things- tourist SIM cards, travel wash up sets, contact lens solutions, batteries, charging cords, disposable underwear, socks, stockings, umbrellas, instant rice etc. I am spoilt for choice. The bigger ones even have proper sitting areas (sometimes it is outdoors on a veranda!) for when you want to eat your instant ramen, or sip coffee while waiting for a friend --> all of which I have done. Cheap supermarkets (like Lotte 999) are heaven for students because prices are low and there is a good selection of items available. Also helps that in the area where I live, there is one on every street!Some cafes are 24 HOURS! Yes! And all cafes guarantee you wifi access, air-conditioning and do not pressure you to leave if you choose to sit there to nurse your one drink for 3-4 hours. Unlike many that I have experienced in Singapore...  Coupons and memberships are KEY!The coupon culture is alive and all in the rage in Korea. Cafes, bubble tea stores- many F&B establishments have their own form of it, either in a physical card or tied to your mobile number. When one in three stores on the street is a cafe, you try hard to keep your customers coming back to you, and coupons are a good way to retain loyal customers! An example of how it works: Buy a cup of coffee, get a stamp. Accumulate 10 stamps, and get your next cup of coffee on the house. When you buy a cup of coffee every day, all these coupons can help you save a significant amount! (International chains like Starbucks do not have that- hence when I am in Seoul I NEVER EVER GO TO STARBUCKS. Not when I can get same priced/cheaper coffee of better quality that comes WITH A COUPON. Memberships are usually tied to your phone number and/or ID (hence as a foreigner you will need your alien ID in order to sign up for these). They offer discounts at restaurants, supermarkets, makeup stores and more- all when you flash the card (either in physical form or on your phone). Most of the memberships come free- no having to pay in order to get discount vouchers which you can use later.   FOOD FOOD FOOD FOOD FOOD & nightlifeAlmost every food place you go into is going to taste pretty good. No shoddy food even if the decor of the place looks shoddy. In fact I had some of my best renditions of classic Korean food at those hole in a wall restaurants run by an ahjumma with zero decor. When you see restaurants like that you know it is the food that keeps it packed at mealtimes. Nightlife is EVERYWHERE. Students mostly hangout in Hongdae/Sinchon, foreigners incline towards Itaewon, those working prefer Gangnam and the area around it. Which district you go to will decide what kind of nightlife you experience, and if clubbing is not your thing, try the affordable karaoke bars that are everywhere. You get tambourines, wigs, and even cool disco lighting in your very own karaoke room!So I have gone on for quite awhile... but I hope it gives you a better idea:) While there are undeniably downsides to living in Seoul (such as the crazy number of staircases in the subway stations, the pavements that are never even, almost always getting run down by a takeout delivery guy on a scooter etc), no city is perfect. But the upsides are what make people stay:)
Seoul is so huge (there is probably more people than in my own country) that it offers basically everything you can imagine from a big town. And I mean it both in a good way and a bad way.It offers great food, beautiful architecture, friendly people, interesting arts & culture and so on. It also offers loads of terrible food, ugly architecture, rude people and lacks a lot of culture you might expect (almost no alternative music concerts you’d find in much smaller european/american cities, to give an example).You might see my point. It’s all about you, your attitude and people you meet there and surround yourself with. Anyway, Seoul is a great city but you have to use it right way to get the most of it.
There are just too many aspects of Seoul. It is a cool place to live generally. Make a question more specific then I could make an answer better one. One of the things I appreciate about this city is: It is SUPER SAFE. You could walk around a city after midnight, without worrying for gun shootings or crimes. Lots of lights, lots of 24 hours stores. Of course, there are several exceptions. But unless you go to specific areas, the city is super safe. Also, it is highly connected. Everywhere you go, you'll find a wifi. Even in a subway, you have access to fastest wifi.-+)Regarding marriage.Unfortunately, Korea is closed society, basically. It is getting more and more opened nowadays, but it has long been a closed world. There are many mixed marriages, which is mainly led by South East Asian women and Korean men. As I look up for some stats, In 2011, there were 29,762 international marriages nationwide. Among them, 22,265 of them were by Korean men, and 7,497 were by Korean women. FYI, a population of South Korea is 50 million, and total number of marriage in 2011 was 329,100. So the percentage of Korean women marrying a foreigner is 2% each year. It depends on each family, but mostly parents do not want international marriage of their children. It is due to cultural difference, and the likeliness of their children moving away from this country.
It’s hard to answer such a general question, but I’d say part of it is convenience. Some examples of what I mean:the subway and bus system is reliable, cheap, and quick.even if you live far from a subway station and a major bus station, there are small buses (마을버스) to take you to a larger transportation hub. I never had or needed a car before I had a child.you can get your groceries delivered for free (as long as you spend more than a certain amount).if you need something fixed, you don’t need to wait long. A few months ago, my washing machine needed repair. My wife called the repair centre and the repairman arrived that night.if you’re moving, you can go the low cost route and rent a truck with a driver who’ll help you. But if you spend more ($3,000 in my case), you get a whole crew that boxes everything up, moves it, and even unpacks everything. You just go to a coffee shop or something for a few hours and show up to your new place.If there’s one glaring exception to all of this, it’s anything related to the internet in Korean. Online banking, taxes, shopping, etc. all has to be done with Internet Explorer (not even Edge!) on a PC, and it’s very time-consuming to download all the bloatware security stuff in order to do anything. Compare this to, say, Amazon, where you can use any computer, any browser, and buy things within a few seconds after entering in your address and credit card information.In fact, while doing my taxes recently, even though I put away my Macbook (again, only IE on a PC), it didn’t work because I was using an English version of Windows; you have to use the Korean version, and it’d better not be Windows 10, either.
People call New York the city that never sleeps... But those people have never been to Seoul. There is always something to, no matter what your poison is. You hungry? Loads of restaurants open 24/7. Take a walk in the middle of the night when it is still warm out, the streets will still be busy, listen to 'Midnight City - M83' and you will feel fantastic.The nightlife is great, dating is cheap, coffeeshops everywhere (not the Dutch kind), all the shops you want and amazing streetfood.I love living in Seoul.