
1. A city that never sleeps (or stops drinking). Seoul is alive 24/7. You are never more than 5 minutes away from a 24hr convenience store and can find a good array of food (and good food) any time day or night. Koreans can also be seen eating and drinking round the clock. Bars close when the last person leaves (could be 1am or 7am). I have often been going to work and come across business people stumbling out of bars or restaurants or just kicking back drinking outside a convenience store with beer or soju at 9am... any day of the week.2. Public transport is awesome. It is fast, reliable, generally easy to use, cheap, and networks the whole country. Compared to the UK or US Korea is living in the future. And it's really easy for foreigners to use.3. Hierarchy pervades all. Despite being an ultra-modern city, the remnants od Confucianism are alive and well in Seoul. This affects business, family and friend relationships. There is even a different way of talking to a friend a year older/younger than you.4. China, Korea and Japan are not the same. I've lived in Asia for 6 years and they just aren't.5. Korea is more technologically advanced than the west. 4G on the subways. New tech adoption by the whole population. Tech pervades your Korean life all the time, mostly making life easier and more efficient.6. 1st world economy. 2nd world society. Korea has the world's 13th biggest economy (for a country of 50M that had nothing 40 years ago that's mega). But socially there's lots of catching up. Old people are among the worst off in the OECD, for example.7. Korean education is incredibly competitive. From elementary school through highschool it's a battle to get into a top university. Achieving this assures a successful career (kind of). To achieve this, kids work exceptionally hard, often working in private accademies more than normal school.8. Koreans speak English. Much more so than in Japan and China.9. Korean ladies are the most beautiful in the world. I should know, I married one.10. Korea is a land of opportunity and contradiction - experience it for yourself.Here's a fun post on the topic: http://www.globalpost.com/dispat...
This is true of most Asian countries but the subway system is incredibly precise and efficient in Korea. You get full 3G connection in the subway, the trains run every 5-10 minutes, and there's air conditioning for those hot and humid days. Always a great experience and the same thing goes for buses.In Korea specifically, there's a huge night life in certain parts of Seoul that most people don't expect and there's just a ton of really good food both on food carts outside and in nicer restaurants. One thing that I really like about Korea is you don't decide what you're going to eat before you go out; you usually just explore/walk around before deciding on something that looks good. This does happen in the bay area but choices are limited and there aren't that many restaurants on a given downtown area. For fast food even you'd need to drive to pick it up whereas in Korea you'd just walk down and pick something that you feel like eating.I guess the word here is convenience.
Positives:How incredibly safe it is.  There is very little "blue-collar" crime here; children take public transportation and walk the street unaccompanied (they all have smartphones too!)   If you lose your wallet or cellphone, there's a 90% chance it will be found and returned to you, with all contents intact.How clean it is.  Not a second goes by that any left trash or fallen leaves are swept up.  All buildings are well-maintained so that the exterior seems like they are sparkling new.How great technology is.  I am from Silicon Valley and the internet and cellphone service is way better here in Seoul.  Even if you go camping in remote mountains you are still likely to get 4G service.  When you sign up for TV service you don't pay more for HD because...that is the only option—cable boxes don't even have SD-type connections on them.Negative:How large domestic companies successfully lobby the government to their own advantage and not the consumers.   A Samsung TV (Korean company) costs twice as much in Korea as it does in the US.   They either make it so there is little outside competition so they can "name their own price" (the only non-Korean cellphone you can buy is Apple) or they drive up the import taxes on foreign products--only to THEN charge more than that! (Because Koreans trust their own products more and would have bought the domestic product anyway--protectionism is not really necessary.)Neutral:You will not find decaffeinated coffee in ANY coffee shop.  People drink caffeinated drinks late into the night and have no problem falling asleep (probably due to constant sleep depravation.)
Korea´s Coffee Obsession:Foreigners have different opinions about the quality of coffee in Korea, but what everybody agrees on, after a few minutes walking around Seoul, is that coffee shops are everywhere. It´s not just a perception:1. Seoul has more Starbucks locations than any other city in the worldHowever, Starbucks is not the leader in Korea:Café Bene (KOR) 900 Starbucks (USA): 600Coffee Bean(USA) 244 Tom&Toms(KOR) 315 Hollys (KOR) 3402. There are also many independent Coffee Shops that compete against big chains offering a more unique environment:- Fancy Coffee Shops:(브릭 / BRICK)- Thematic Coffee Shops:(Hello Kitty Cafe)- Book Cafe(카페꼼마 / Cafe Comma)3. Normally coffee shops open from 9 am to 11 pm, but 24 hour Coffee Shops are very common. 4. Coffee is more expensive than a regular Korean mealFor the price of a regular Latte ($4.5 - $5) you can eat at some inexpensive Korean traditional restaurants.
Here are some more I would add to the list of the others:How crazy and passionate Koreans are about baseball.How spicy the food is (and I'm Mexican).The vibrant live indie rock music and cultural scene in Hongdae.How insanely cluttered and packed the subway is at rush hours.How hot it is during the summer (haven't seen the Korean winter yet).The K-Pop madness (people are really obsessed about it).There's a great quality in services (you can rent a cellphone at the airport, restaurants serve food in a flash, rent rooms to go play games, watch movies or sing karaoke with friends, etc.).There's lots of foreigners in Seoul.Amazed with how true the following statement is: "The more flashy and wealthy-looking you are, the more girls you get."Sophisticated technology is ubiquitous in Seoul.The serious regard for hierarchical culture.How side dishes are "free refill" at any restaurant (and the custom of side dishes).Definitely agree with some of the others, like the heavy drinking culture, the omnipresence of internet, and how fashionable women strive to be.In the end, I would say Korea is a fascinating country and I have learned a ton of things just by living immersed in its unique society and culture. Come check it out, definitely worth it.