
I don't want to give the impression I take such pictures every day as a hobby, but here are three I've taken over the last two years where I really was annoyed: the bus or subway train is filled to capacity with people standing, but no one will sit on the empty seat next to me. This is a regular occurrence for me, not daily, but at least weekly. Koreans will sit next to a drunk person, a crying person, a crazy cat person, before they will sit next to a foreigner, "white" people very much included. (I've lived in Busan, Daegu, Incheon, and the countryside over ten years, and am in Seoul almost weekly-- photos here are Ansan, Suwon, and Daegu, I think.) I've had people gingerly sit next to me with clear reluctance and spring away to another seat when one becomes free. Yes, here come the caveats, because I'm sure to get angry comments. Is this actually racism, or is it xenophobia? That's a good question. I admit I don't know. Are foreigners shooed away from nightclubs and spas for their DNA, or simply for being foreign? South Koreans don't really mock or abuse people in media for having "white" features as such-- if anything, they buy cosmetics or even do plastic surgery to emulate these features. There is a current of ugly racial triumphalism in Korean culture which includes all foreigners, and I had my share of abuse and stink-eye when I was dating my wife. Other than this, it's mostly these little acts of micro-aggression."Not every Korean is like this!" or "There's racism in every country, including yours!" Yes, yes, of course, to both. I've met Koreans who've justified racism, and some who've denied it exists here, but also many who disapprove or are ashamed of it. Many Koreans are not so much racist as simply unused to other people, and what I endure here can be dispiriting but isn't exactly Jim Crow-level discrimination. I'll also say that it's gotten better in the decade I've been here. 
I have heard the following from number of non-ethnic Korean friends and colleagues.1. People who live in Korea long-term have difficulty really fitting in because they are made to feel excluded or foreign, even if they speak Korean, etc. 2. In terms of job opportunities, it is very difficult aside from teaching, etc. Even if a foreigner is hired by a Korean company in non-language instruction role, for his/her technical skills or knowledge, connections, marketing, etc., it is difficult to survice long term due to office politics, lack of support from leadership, etc.3. There are few support groups or networks. Personal connections are important in Korea (e.g., based on school, region, family connections, etc.) but foreigners do not have such connections.Having said that, I have met a number of "succesful" long term residents in Korea, including:1. A restaurant owner from Canada/Italy who has lived in Korea over 18 years. He used to be chef at famous Italian restaurant in Korea;3. Attorney at local law firm from Russia who has lived in Korea over 20 years and has Korean citizenship (for work purposes);4 Owner of import business who has lived in Korea over 10 years;to name a few. So it is possible to live in Korea long-term and have successful job/career. But it is not easy (but then again, anything worthwhile is not easy). Majority of foreigners I know stay for a few years, and then pack up and leave.In my humble opinion, if you are a foreigner, I think one key may be that one needs to have an outgoing personality and positive attitude about life here. Some Koreans can be rude or racist. And Korean society can be aggressive and in-your-face, certainly (just like NYC). In other words, I think it would be a plus if you have the personality to take things in stride, rather than letting everything get to you. C.f., I have been told that if a person is introverted and shy, Japan may be a better fit than Korea for a foreigner. But not sure if this is true.I hope this helps. Cheers.
My college (I went to college in the States) offered some kind of program that sent students to Korea to have them teach English for a semester or more.So, when I was taking a break from the university, I had some of my college friends in Seoul, working as an English teacher. Both female in their early 20s, one worked for a public school and the other was working for a 'Hagwon,' a Korean cram school. Well, the usual old men harassing them with creepy stares was one thing they often complained about, and the other one was Korean guys hitting on them in clubs. I wanted to tell them that they should be happy because they weren't really considered cute back in the States and now they are getting all this attention, and that please stop hanging out in clubs every single day of the weekends if you don't wanna draw attention. I chose to keep my mouth shut since one of them already hated me enough. Anyhow, I never really heard white folks complaining about their experience in Korea being racist.It's usually the same shit other people face, Korean people being weird, stuck-up, or straight-up assholes and hypocrites. In my opinion, Korean people are very generous towards white folks in particular.Korean people will think white folk stuttering simple words like hello cute and adorable even if that's all he/she can utter after living in Korea for several years. Whenever Koreans see a white folk approach them for help or directions, they will do their absolute best to respond in English. French or other Europeans aren't too happy with Koreans assuming every white Caucasian to speak English, but I'd say screw you all and at least try learning the language of the country you are visiting if you are to stay for some time. It's a respectful gesture. It's ironic because Americans emphasize respecting one another so much, but I rarely see them committing to it when overseas. Europeans are better in that matter since they are at least open and blunt about them not really giving a shit.Went off the track there, anyways, I do not think there is much racism going on towards white people in Korea. It's rather the opposite. I think Korean people have this  stereotypical image of white male, professional, gentle, and compassionate. I believe Hollywood movies are mostly responsible for this, and I think white people should take full advantage of it. It's whole different story for other races, though.
South Korea is a homogeneous society - so actually more likely to have prejudices against foreigners - so not just US but anyone that looks different - non Asian but specifically non-Korean. Now, within that principle there are variations. Do not interpret my response to all Koreans are racist or hate foreigners - keep it in its context to your question. Let us face facts, racism is everywhere.Actually, I see that more whites are accepted due to what is perceived by colonization, media and news they are exposed to. On the flip side, Americans are often viewed as being rude. We travel to a foreign country, we think everyone should speak English. We could learn the culture in which we are visiting but I digress, that is another discussion for another time.If you go into a situation with preconceived notions, chances are you will get what you expect.