
Far better than I could have possibly imagined.Before moving to South Korea my main concern was:"Would there be any obvious resentment towards the Japanese?"Fortunately, during my one year there I didn't experience or witness any.I studied abroad one year in Yonsei University, which is considered as one of the top three universities in Seoul.  During the first week we participated in an orientation for exchange students, and I was met with a surprise.At the end of all the normal explanations, a group of student activists came on stage and started preaching passionately that no mistake should be made that the island of Dokdo is Korean property, not Japan.  As we headed out of the auditorium, they gave us tote bags with a map of the Sea of Korea and the words "Say Dokdo".  It felt slightly uncomfortable but nonetheless I wasn't exactly offended by their demo.  In fact, I ended up using this tote bag throughout the year since the quality was nice and the design itself was quite attractive.  I saw other Japanese exchange students using it as well.  I found it quite interesting that they felt the issue so important that they made it a point to tell all foreign exchange students about it.  I may be wrong but interacting with Japanese students back in Japan, I got the impression the younger generation really did not care who that island belonged to.That was the only clearly anti-Japan experience that I have had in South Korea.I joined two student organizations at Yonsei - the volleyball team and a volunteering group.  As part of the volunteering activities, we went to an elderly home to help serve lunch. There I met a cute little grandma who asked me if I was Japanese.  I answered yes.  She showed me a children's book she was reading in Japanese, and went on to explain in very good Japanese that she was polishing her Japanese skills since a long time had passed since she was required to learn it in school.  She paused and I waited a little nervous, wondering if she had any hard feelings for being forced to learn Japanese as a child.  However, she continued to say that she loved learning and speaking the language.  It was an eye-opening experience for me, one that made me realize that there were people such as herself who lived directly under the unfair Japanese rule and nonetheless found it in their hearts to be not only forgiving, but receptive of Japan.My stay in Korea overlapped exactly with the 3/11 Great East Japan earthquake.  Within a week I saw this posted on the doors of the Korean Language Institute:In Korean, the message reads:Dear all Japanese and Koreans in Japan,Your friends all over the world are rooting for you. Please, stay strong!We offer our deepest condolences for all those who are suffering as a result of the earthquake.  You are not alone.  We are right there beside you.  We pray you will rise again with courage.  We will share your sorrow and your pain together.Sincerely,Yonsei University Korean Language InstituteMany of my classmates were sincerely concerned, asking if my friends and family back in Japan were alright.  The earthquake stayed a hot topic in Korea for quite a while, with the news broadcasting the latest updates frequently.  A lot of restaurants in Seoul have TVs, and I heard comments of sympathy from other diners watching as well.While Japan and Korea share a dark history and still collide regarding various issues, the disaster that struck Japan gave me the chance to see how an average Korean reacts to a situation in which the Japanese are faced with hardship.  My heart was warmed to see there were so many that seemed to genuinely care for their neighbors. On the other hand, I suppose the one disadvantage of being seen as Japanese in Korea (as well as many countries) is that you are considered too trusting, meaning you can easily get ripped off by taxi drivers or shop owners.  I shudder when I see Japanese tourists leave their bags unattended.  The sense of safety they've built up after living for years in Japan puts a big fat target on their backs in other countries.I don't think I ever got completely ripped off since I always bartered before buying anything.I did, however, almost fall trap to a scam once.  I was walking the school campus when a young man and woman claiming to be university students approached me.  They told me they were doing surveys for their senior thesis and asked if they could interview me.  I agreed.  We went to the cafeteria where they talked about a lot of religious topics and the spiritual journey.  I was starting to get the feeling it had nothing to do with their senior thesis, but nonetheless I stayed because I was enjoying the satisfaction of actually being able to understand these complex topics in Korean.  After about an hour, they asked me if I could accompany them to their "student office" off-campus to continue the chat with some tea and sweets.  I didn't feel completely comfortable so I lied I was busy and told them tomorrow would be better.  I gave them my number and we parted ways.After returning to the student dorm, the excitement of understanding so much Korean died down and my logic started kicking in.  "Doesn't it all seem a bit fishy to you?" it asked me.  So I called up my Korean friend, who panicked and said, "No no no no no Serina!  Whatever you do, don't go!".  Apparently she knew of another Japanese person who fell for the same old trick.  He went to the "office", had tea and sweets, and sat through a weird religious ceremony.  When he tried to leave, he was held up by a couple of Korean men who said he had to pay for the services.  They took everything he had in his wallet, although lucky for him, he only had 5 dollars.   The next day I got a couple of calls and messages since I didn't show up at the hour we agreed on, but after ignoring all of them, I never heard from them again.  I guess they are like Venus fly traps - they only go for prey that willing walks into their territory.Besides this incident, my stay in Korea was a highly enjoyable one.   There were a lot of curious global thinkers in Seoul and I wound up teaching English to 5 businessmen and did a Japanese-Korean language exchange with 1 male and 2 female university students.  We quickly became friends and spent most of our time eating or going to karaoke together, the original purpose of language exchange long forgotten.  I especially enjoyed being part of the Yonsei volleyball group, which was about 95% Korean, 4% Japanese, and 1% other.  We would practice every Thursday night until 9, and then most of the time go out to eat BBQ afterwards (needless to say, the exercise did not even nearly cover for the calories I consumed :P).  This is where I learned a lot of Korean slang and about the Korean eating/drinking culture.  Overall the treatment and hospitality I received was great, and I truly fell in love with the Korean culture, food, language, and most of all, the warm and vibrant people. If I had been working in Korea, my experiences and opinion may have been completely the opposite.  The things I've heard regarding the Korean working culture from Koreans themselves is enough for me to conclude I would probably not survive in a traditional Korean company, and even less so as a foreigner.However, my time there as an university student was a blast, and I wouldn't trade the time I spent there for anything in the world.  I left a big chunk of my heart in Seoul.
As a South Korean, my country is not the best place for foreigners to live in not because we aren't welcoming enough but rather because of the whole social atmosphere that is averse to hiring foreigners unless you are extremely fluent in Korean (to the point where people assume you're Korean). So the biggest obstacle that many foreigners(not only Japanese) is the language barrier.I would like to give you more information if you specifically pinpoint what makes you worried :)