
On way to his work in subway, a man is given a giant Popsicle by a random stranger.Japanese men:‘Hell, this things huge, I might be causing trouble to other passengers.’At his work,“Sorry everyone, this thing is dripping everywhere and I will take care of it.’At his desk, man eats the whole thing enduring brain freeze, or discards it, or in some rare cases, draws hentai manga out of it later.Korean men:‘This things huge! Maybe I am special for coming across such an incident.’At his work,‘Everyone! look what I have!’Parades around the office dripping all over.‘Hey boss, isn’t this thing huge! maybe I will get one for you next time!’Approaches the female coworker to make some dirty jokes about it, but pussies out and moves to new kid’s desk.‘Hey new kid, lick it!’‘but I don’t want to…’headlocks the new kid and makes him lick the Popsicle.‘Now I am done parading around, you can finish it off kid.’New kid eats the Popsicle at his desk.
I have never been to Korea and have met Korean friends only in Japan, and feel that what we think about politeness is so similar.However, I feel one big difference and maybe it's just because they are in Japan and are showing respect to the local people like we do when we go abroad. Many of new friends I meet tend to be younger than me. In both countries, we talk in honorific way to older people, but in Japan, some of us feel distant and sad when a good younger friend talk to us that way and tell them that we want them to talk to us in relaxed way or the younger friends "read" it and start talking in friendly way. Our governments have issues, but I have some Korean friends who I really consider "friends" and I always ask them to talk to me in friendly way. Some of my Korean friends do so, but for some of them, seems that they feel stress like "they have to talk to me that way" and I never want to give them pressure so they still talk to me in polite way.
The stereotype is that Koreans are more direct and blunt in expressing their true intentions while Japanese go through great pains to avoid direct delivery of what they are truly thinking (hon-ne). Koreans, between close friends, like to tease each other to the point of seeming mean or “taking it too far”. The English people call it “taking a piss”. Koreans do that a lot. The Japanese are less likely to do that and are very polite to each other which for Korean people seems too distant.Similarly, Japanese people rarely invite their friends as guests. If a Japanese friend invites you for a dinner at their place, it means that they consider you a very close friend, a best friend. Koreans are more likely to invite people over, even if they are acquaintances and not a close friend. However, in both countries, compared to Americans, it is rare that they invite people over due to the highly urban nature of these countries. Apartments are small.Both cultures value sacrificing the individual self for the benefit of the society compared to the Western world. But I feel like the Japanese are more ready to sacrifice themselves. For example, I hear that Japanese streets are so clean because every resident does their part to keep it clean. Such thing would not happen in Korea. Japanese people value the greater good maybe a little more than Koreans. Koreans can be more selfish. “as long as it doesn’t affect me and my family, i don’t care about the others”For the youth (18–35), the contemporary Japanese youth are seen as less competitive in the job market than Korean counterparts. They are less likely to compete too hard for jobs or for university entrance. While in Korea, the competition is cut-throat and young people try so hard to build up their “specs”. Rather, the Japanese youth are more currently interested in a more relaxed lifestyle (karyu= slacker). In this regard, the Japanese youth are more similar to European or American youth. Also, Japanese people work less than Koreans. Japanese 1800 hours/year. Koreans 2200 hours/year.Korean culture seems more traditional and family-oriented. More conservative. Many Korean youth still live with their parents until they get married or get their first job. While, in Japan after high school graduation, they start living by themselves and experiment more with sex.When it comes to paying, let’s say after a meal, in Korea, it’s always one person paying for the whole thing. Usually the older one or the higher ranking one pays. “Going Dutch” is not common. For Japanese people, it’s mostly “Dutch pay”, they only pay for themselves.I read somewhere that Japanese value “wa” = “harmony” while Koreans value “jeong” = “sense of attachment, bond, camaraderie”. “Wa” requires that everyone to stay within their alloted personal boundary and not interfere others. “Jeong” requires for this personal boundary line to be bent and mutilated as needs be.Japanese people want simple, practical, calm, collected, reserved. They remind me of robots or Spock from Star Trek in this regard.Koreans show more of unprocessed raw feelings. More expressive, a bit more extroverted. I think Koreans are more emotionally charged people. Honestly, I’ve never seen a Japanese person get angry or lose their cool in public while for Koreans I’ve seen it countless times.
Historically (note “HISTORICALLY”) the Japanese tended to regard the Koreans as much lesser beings (provisionally “people” , but not by much) while the Koreans thought of the Japanese as raucous (and rather duplicitous [and uncultured]) upstarts that “respectable people” simply didn’t associate with.For the generation that was “parenting” during WWII, those attitudes were still fairly prevalent (although it wasn’t considered “polite” to voice them openly) as late as the 1980s.The Koreans are somewhat more open and somewhat easier to get to know and understand while the Japanese (to quote an old friend of mine) “Learning to fully understand the ‘Japanese Psyche’ is simplicity itself - all you have to do is arrange for yourself and the last four generations of your fore-bearers to have been born Japanese and raised in Japan.” - Cultural Differences - a Jaundiced View
Societal norms around openly talking about 115 101 120. This is ascii numbers for the 3 letter word that rhymes with six with an edit distance of 1.My reluctance to use this word directly speaks volumes about Korea's societal norms around openly discussing this topic. Added to that my being a stereotypical shy geek has only allowed me to speak of it in this form. I hope you understand.Japanese as I perceive them are very different. I want to be very careful as not to generalize here so I'll explain one word used in Korea that is a reference to the Japanese to make my case.The Korean word for 1st world country is Sun-Jin-Gook which Japan, by all account, definitely is. There is an eerily similar sounding word used to call the Japanese pronounced Sung-Jin-Gook. That little 'g' at the end is what turns the original word from "1st" to "115 101 120". The two other words roughly translate to "advanced country".I’m blushing now…This word in multiple context can mean different things. I’ve always taken it to mean “a country where it’s okay and encouraged to discuss 115 101 120 matters openly” hence a more advanced and healthy social construct around this very important topic.