
Would you rather live in boring heaven, or exciting hell?This, an oft repeated phrase within the Korean expat community, is the choice that many Koreans feel they have to make when it comes to whether they stay in their home country or look abroad for opportunity. Korea is one of the most densely populated countries in the world, and as you can see from the below map, density is essentially inescapable:People live on top of each other in small apartments with prices that often make Manhattan prices look reasonable. Renting is expensive, and securing an apartment requires putting up a down payment (known as key money) in the tens of thousands of dollars for a one bedroom, and often in the hundreds of thousands of dollars for an apartment suitable for a family (yes, for a rental). A family apartment might look something like this:While an "officetel" for a single person would look something like this:Point being, there isn't a whole lot of personal space. The cost of getting an apartment for oneself complicates matters on the dating front, as the appearance of chastity is expected, and people generally live with their parents until they get married due to the costs of getting their own apartments (Korean wages are generally quite low relative to the cost of living). This gives rise to DVD rooms and love motels existing so as to provide a space for couples to enjoy some privacy (not sex, necessarily).Want to go to the beach to get away from it all? Well, it might look like this:Well, maybe a water park then?Oh, that's not going to work either. Maybe we can take a hike?You get the point? Korea's population density means that it's very difficult to escape people, and the downtown of a Seoul suburb will often be as crowded as Times Square. To add to all this, Koreans also have the third highest working hours in the OECD after Mexico and Costa Rica, and it's not particularly close to countries of the West:And make the notoriously vacation-stingy Americans look like they're living lives of leisure:So how do Koreans cope? They drink:And this isn't an uncommon sight the morning after:It's not uncommon to cope in other ways as well:From Prostitution in South Korea:Prostitution in South Korea is illegal,[1] but according to The Korea Women's Development Institute, the sex trade in Korea was estimated to amount to 14 trillion South Korean won ($13 billion) in 2007, roughly 1.6 percent of the nation's gross domestic product.[2][3] According to the Korean Institute of Criminology, 20 percent of adult males aged between 20-64 purchase sex at an average of 693,000 won ($580) per month.[4] According to a study conducted by the Medical College of Korea University, 23.1% of males and 2.6% of females have their first sexual experience with a prostitute.[5]The number of prostitutes dropped by 18 percent to 269,000 during the same period. The sex trade involved some 94 million transactions in 2007, down from 170 million in 2002. The amount of money traded for prostitution was over 14 trillion won, much less than 24 trillion won in 2002.[2] Despite legal sanctions and police crackdowns, prostitution continues to flourish in S Korea, while sex workers continue to actively resist the state's activities.So getting back to that opening statement, would you rather live in boring heaven, or exciting hell? Korea offers the latter. Life moves swiftly, new buildings are constantly being built, nightlife and restaurants are endless, sin taxes are almost unheard of. Korea is an incredible place to be young. But once you get older, once you have a family, do you really want to live in 800 square feet, hustling so you can afford housing and education for your children? Do you want to be putting those children through the wringer that is the Korean education system, with classes until 10 PM being the norm rather than the exception for high school students and 8 PM being quite normal for younger individuals?That's the dark side of Korea. The country may be rich, but life is hard, even for the wealthy. Leaving Korea means escaping that, but it also means accepting a life that simply won't be as fun, exciting, or engaging as the one you left behind.
Thanks for asking.The root cause (my humble opinion, not backed up by any scholarly research) behind the symptoms mentioned in the other answers here: racism, sucking up to whiter skinned people from richer countries but mistreating darker skinned people from poorer countries, chauvinism, and the preoccupation with status seems to related be our (Korean) tendency to bully. Our kids bully weaker kids in middle and high school at epidemic rates and bullying in our military is probably one of the worst force de-multipliers that weaken our forces. Because the entire class or unit gangs up on a single weak kid/soldier the damage is quite devastating - suicides in school kids, military "accidents", desertions, and fraggings.I have no idea why such vicious bullying happens but somewhere during our difficult 40 year climb out of widespread third-world poverty, during which we also kicked out a military dictatorship with People Power, we seem to have lost our appreciation of justice and forget that we are not supposed to mistreat weaker people or abuse power. We have an airline vice president throwing a tantrum and kicking a steward off a plane over an argument about how to serve macademian nuts (it turns out the steward was correct and the VP was wrong). We have purchasing officers who regularly screw over their suppliers. While global companies all practice ruthless supply chain management that skirts the borders of unconscionable dealing, Korean purchasing officers seem to enjoy it. Abuse of power is so widespread that we have public service messages that remind people that we are all suppliers to some people and purchasers to others, and urging people not to be so mean when they are the purchaser! Such behavior is so widespread we have even given it a name: "kap-jil" which literally means acting like a purchaser (or the stronger party in a deal).Such behavior occurs elsewhere as well but it seems to happen alot here. The widespread mean-ness and bullying probably has something to do with the high suicide rates we have. That is a dark side if there ever was one!
I wrote an answer to a similar question that addresses the current state of young Koreans. Here, take a look:Original answer link: How do young South Koreans feel about their future?As K-12 students, they lead truly miserable lives. They are generally forced to study for “at least” 12 hours a day—7 hours of school, 3+ hours of hagwons(Hagwon - Wikipedia), and 2+ hours of homework & personal studying.What about on weekends and vacations, you say? No worries, because they spend more time at hagwons and study more by themselves to make up for it. They spend around 6~8+ hours studying on no-school days.They barely have time to sleep, to hang out with friends, to relax and chill, and to do what they actually want to other than studying all the time. Instead, they’re endlessly pushed by their parents, teachers, and the society as a whole to memorize one more English word, solve one more math problem, and spend one last minute on your damn seat. Gee, no wonder they commit suicide a lot.Believe me, I was a victim too. I was so depressed throughout most of my life during that time period. If I was determined enough, I might’ve committed suicide as well. I felt like my life had no meaning, and that’s exactly how a lot of Korean students feel about their lives; that there's no meaning of life. It’s almost as if you were born to study.Schools make you study like this till 10pm. Believe me, they really did, and they still do.So, yay, here you are, at a university. Awesome! Did your life suddenly turn into a jolly magical fiesta, as the adults told you so? NO!To begin with, a lot of them don’t even pick the major they want to study on. Why? It’s simple, really. All they have been doing for your last decade was to study what their teachers told them to. They don’t have life goals. They don’t know what they’re gonna do in the future. They don’t have a dream. All they did for most of their lives was study hard and get into a university. They already achieved their goal. Of course they don’t have any clue about what to do next.Then this guy named “Society” kicks in. Hey bud, you don’t have to pursue your dreams. Unis are only for getting jobs, anyway. Just get a decent job before you graduate, or you’re gonna be a loser! Study hard like you did in your high school, get good grades, and study more for certificates to get a job! Job, job, job, job…A job fair at South Korea.Even at unis, where they thought was the end, they have to study for 4 more years in the same old fashion to get a job. They do get more freedom compared to their middle school and high school days, but the never-ending studying persists.These dudes and dudettes seriously party like crazy. Personally I could never get myself hanging out with these maniacs.Not only that, but tons of students retake Korean SAT tests because they—or their parents—weren’t satisfied with the results. Statistics show that more than 20% of all Korean SAT takers were re-takers. This creates a vicious cycle because re-takers, with more experience compared to first-timers, get better scores than the newbies, and as a result, newbies become re-takers themselves, and so on.Literally hundreds of students and parents gathering up for re-taker hagwon presentations. Intel is everything in this business; you gotta pick the best hagwon!There’s also something that I have to mention: The military service. All Korean men are subject to the 2-year conscription system, and don’t even get me started on what’s life like for them. You spend your precious 2 years of a young adult as a soldier with close to no access to society, terrible food, severe treatment from seniors and executives, no friends and family, and ultimately, no freedom. Again. Oh, by the way, you get nothing out of it! No privileges, no respects, no nothing! You're only paid around 163,000~216,000 KRW per month, which calculates to around 160 bucks! Considering the cost of living in South Korea, that’s BS!FML.Okay… So you graduated high school, got into a university, served your country for 2 years, and managed to get a job. Yay! You did everything the society told you to. Way to go! You’re finally on your way to success, right? NO!Uni grads’ typical initial salary is around $2200~$2600 before tax. Even if you cut down as much as you can on your spending, with rent, the lowest you can go is around $800. Typically it’s $900–$1000. Even if you find some of the best-paying jobs($2600) and save as much as possible($800), you only get to save around $1550 per month, after tax. Dude, when are you gonna buy a decent place with that money, because even the cheapest places in Seoul cost around $100K. Are you gonna live like that and work for a hundred years or something? Who says you’re not gonna get fired? When are you gonna marry? Have kids?Sorry, only Korean images for this one. What it basically says is that apartments cost $500K on average. Maybe not that expensive compared to some other megacities, but quite expensive nonetheless.TL;DR: Young South Koreans feel their future is preeeeetty messed up. These are the reasons why Koreans refer to Korea as Hell Chosun.If you’re going to Korea as an expat, you still have your fair share of dark sides of Korea you’ll encounter.As mentioned above, getting a house is a pain in the arse. The prices for housing are unacceptable, even for foreigners from relatively rich countries.Managed to get a job in South Korea? Turns out that Koreans are pretty exclusive to themselves, and often leave you out of their ‘group.’ Korea has been racially homogeneous for thousands of years, and they’re simply not open to other races yet.Have a Korean boyfriend or girlfriend you’re thinking of marrying? Be prepared for your partner’s parents to consider your relationship as “not serious” and “for dating purposes only.” Some will openly reject or disapprove your marriage, and some will actually listen to their parents’ advice and give up! Society’s views on interracial relationships aren’t good either. Though things are starting to get better and people are becoming more open-minded on this matter, Koreans aren’t very fond of this yet.Air pollution is becoming a thing nowadays. Recently Korea experienced a surge in microdust concentration. Things won’t get any better from what I see.With that said, Korea is a fun place to live if you manage to get a very well-paying job and fully understand the Korean language and culture, letting Koreans wholly accept you. If not? There's still fun to be had, but it won't come easy, mind you.
Korea - 6+ yearsKorea is a great place. Before I go into the dark side, let's look at a few outstanding goodies you get to have as a wide-eyed foreigner in exile from your own homeland.- People are basically friendly, even in big, crowded cities, unlike in many other places. And Koreans are often profoundly decent people.- People like foreigners. You will like the people, too, if you take the time and energy to actively engage them. You'll make friends that stick with you for life, and you won't ever regret it. If you put in serious effort, it doesn't go unrewarded.- Collaborative culture: Despite the conformity, the closeness and attention people give each other has advantages. I've never seen teams of people get together to complete group tasks as efficiently as I've seen in Korea. You want something complex done that requires lots of co-ordinated effort? Koreans are the people to ask.- It sounds trite, given the seriousness of the rest of these observations, but it's just so amazing it has to be mentioned: co-ordination and drive produce small miracles. For example, the transportation system is beyond comparison, and it's super cheap. The rest of the world needs to study Korea and its ability to marshal public resources. There are few cities in the world that are more convenient to get around in than Seoul: efficient and timely trains that go to the furthest corner of the country for tiny amounts of money from several well-planned central stations, and they build subway lines faster than you can say "You got a permit for this in how long?" The city boasts a massively expanding network that already puts almost any other city on Earth to shame. You can travel crazy distances, conveniently, at high speeds, in relative comfort. The subways are beyond compare. And more: an intricate network of four categories of super-useful buses, all of them fast (if sometimes feeling like roller coaster rides), so great that you eventually may want to give up on the amazing subways and just use the bus system. Nowhere on Earth have I seen a more comprehensive transit network, maybe not even a better public service of any kind.I suspect it's the cheapest, most effective, most extensive, most efficient public transit system not just anywhere today, but in human history. I use it all the time, and it never fails to astound me how much better it is than anywhere else I've ever been or even heard of.- The food is fantastic. If you like meat and spicy foods and yummy stuff, the place is great. Fresh, with a (limited but) impressive cuisine. And Korea is a foodies food-culture paradise unlike anywhere else.However, all of these things come with downsides.DOWNSIDES: For You, as a Foreigner- Sameness: at first, you're astounded by the amazing windfall of neighbourhoods, places, hangouts, restaurants, and endroits with local colour. There's a thousand neighbourhoods to explore in Seoul and even the larger cities like Pusan, Taegu or Gwangju. However, you soon realize something: Every subway station and neighbourhood has the same outlet stores, the same chains, the same family restaurants, the same same sameness; soon, exploring neighbourhoods takes on less urgency, as the tendency for cultural and consumerist monotony sets in. Mainstream Korea is not the multicultural haven that many Western cities have become; outside of a few core areas, there’s a great degree of homogeneity.But this isn't so much a dark side as it is a realization that Seoul is just like any other city - just moreso. It’s bigger, louder, vaster, more everything: more intense. The cities are amazingly well-built, for a country leveled to the ground 70 years ago, and don't let the run-down nature of some areas fool you - Koreans are A#1 at building infrastructure when they're not rushing to get a job done.But there are things left out in the mad rush to completion. For example, I offer up “the smell”: for some utterly incomprehensible reason, Seoul, especially, stinks to high heaven within vicinity of sewer grates, and by “near” I mean “anywhere within 100 metres”. I'm guessing - wild speculation - that it's got something to do with not bothering to fix a badly designed post-war sewage network that's just barely underground and out of sight, and that basically works, but that in honest really needs to be completely rebuilt.SOCIAL DOWNSIDESAll places have their downsides. I could go on at immense length about the social negatives about my own country, my home city, my culture - there are so many, books could be written, nay, volumes. I believe there are these things called “newspapers” which detail the many failings of my own home and the city I came from. I don't want to give the impression that Seoul is a kind of hell, but the original question asked here was about the dark side of living in Korea. Don't think I'm slagging Korea; I could write long pages about the wonders of Seoul and the amazing people who live there, but that's not the purpose of this post.Here are some of the dark parts of aspects of Korean life you’ll encounter as a foreigner, which may or may not apply to you.Life is CheapLow Cost: The low cost of living in Seoul is great, if you have a good job. But this is backstopped by the horrible wages and living conditions for many: Taxi drivers make a tiny sum (in a culture with no tips), restaurant staff are minimum wage slaves, retail workers are required to be incredibly polite and effusively helpful but get paid a pittance, and the cops shuffle homeless people off. Street vendors - source of much colour and joy and hey they're just doing their thing - are often run out of areas when the government (!), in cahoots with locals, often hire thugs to beat the crap out of Granny and Grandpa Street Vendor to "clean up" a place or drive out competition. Things like that remind you of the corrupt, autocratic, top-down authoritarian past that Korea is growing out of, and they sometimes really disappoint you.Fate and Decent JobsWhile life is good for foreigners with decent jobs, it's humiliating and awful if you don't have one. Ask a Sri Lankan labourer working 12 hours a day 6 days a week for LG and see how good life in Korea is. People from the “West” or other rich countries call themselves "expats", while Sri Lankans or Indonesians are "migrant labourers". This delineates one of many naked class differentials. The truth is that while everyone is migrant labour, some are treated well and others are treated like cattle. We participate in this game by emphasizing distinctions. It saddens me how upper-class migrants don't pressure the government to push companies into treating lower-class migrants better. This is a very, very dark stain on the Korean body politic. It's also true in many other places, but after so many bad examples, South Korea should know better. When you broach the topic with Koreans, they will often suck in their breath and nod, not knowing what to do about the people who do their "DDD" jobs.ConformismThis is a highly conformist culture. As a foreigner, you don't need to worry about pressure, because you can't ever really fit in. The downside: You can't ever really fit in. But if you look hard enough, you can find Korean outcasts and rebels to hang out with, in the funky arts or music scene or the underground cultures that exist just behind doors and in easily-missed locales.Choosing to be a ForeignerAt first, you say "I want to be Korean!", then you see how Koreans live, and then you say "Hey, treat me like a foreigner." And this is the point: That wonderfully conformist culture that gets group stuff done can crush people who don't fit in, and let's be honest, lots of Koreans don't fit in. You get to watch this from a front-row seat. Women, men, children, old people: Not easy. Life is hard, and conformism doesn't make it easier. Older people can be rude and obnoxious, and you learn why they often act like they've said "screw you all, I'm doing whatever the hell I want, you basterds". They do it because they can absolutely say they've earned the social right to defy social rules through a life of social scraping and kowtowing. This is cultural, not political, too - Koreans often leave the country or prefer to deal with foreigners or speak in a foreign language, because it frees them from soul-draining social niceties and obligations that make normal life almost like punishment much of the time.Hard KnocksLife is freaking hard for Koreans. There's a narrow path considered acceptable for Koreans to follow, and straying from it comes at serious social cost (even though many are willing to pay it). As a foreigner your life may be so-so, but the lives of your Korean friends goes from pressure to pressure to pressure. Integrate as much as you want, but be glad you're not local. If Korea is a great place to be a culturally adaptable foreigner, it's a brutal place for Koreans. Many Koreans want to leave not because South Korea isn't a politically free place, or because they face hardship or hard times finding good jobs. It's because of the constricting social culture.You think you have it tough, the immigration office treats you badly, the government is hard to deal with? Your boss is a jerk, there's bad workplace politics and your boyfriend won't introduce you to his parents?If you're Korean, you need to deal with this, and far, far worse: Much more hierarchical workplace abuse; fewer options for redress (believe it or not), because defending yourself can stigmatize you; obnoxious "seniors" (work, family, school, government offices, even social circles) that use their social power over you to browbeat or abuse you; I’ve heard numberless stories of dodgy relatives who scam others for money and get away with it. Then there’s litigious rich snobs who sue you because you spilled coffee on their expensive shirt, you weak, dirty little prole; a painful and embarrassing quest for a marriage partner at predetermined age, after which you're basically trash, even if this age has gone up from, say, 25-26 for women to 29-30 these days (try being a 40 year-old Korean woman and talk about how much trouble you have dating); women who expect men to be walking wallets and personal servants, and woe betide a man with the wrong or no family connections, how contemptible is he; and when you get old, the very real chance you'll be discarded by relatives and children who see you as a useless piece of (abusive, weak, over-compensating, insert social pathology here) parental refuse.Before you get resentful about not being Korean and never being able to fit in, ask yourself if you want to fit in.The All-Seeing EyesAll the time, everywhere, people are watching and judging you. People are deciding whether you are Acceptable. Are you High-Value? Are you pretty or handsome? Are you rich? What’s your social status? Once they decide what social category to put you in, they ask "are you behaving in the Proper Manner for your social category"? You need to Maintain. Everyone is always judging you.Many Koreans very desperately want to exit Korea to get away from the judgmental eyes of other Koreans. You may be exempt from it for a time; but Koreans live as if everywhere is a small village, and everyone has their nose in your business.Consumerism and Status:Status: Social status is everything. Even if you're not rich, you need to pretend to be rich. You need the Right Manners, the Right Attitude, the Right Look, the Right Disposition, the Right Response, the Right Interests. It's a lot like Hong Kong that way. Get used to it. Do you think they’re materialistic and status-obsessed where you come from? It’s nothing compared to Korea.You complain that Western countries are consumerist? You know nothing yet. South Korea is among the most intense, self-focused, bitterly consumerist places on Earth. New York City is almost anti-capitalist by comparison.Confucius what?You’re going to hear a lot about Confucian values and hierarchy and order and family. A lot of people resort to this kind of lazy talk. The truth is that there’s nothing particularly Confucian in any meaningful sense about life in Korea. Sure, there may be a few rituals hanging around, but their cultural context is so twisted out of shape that, in essence, talking about confucianism in any reasonable sense is just a distraction.When it comes to old people, for example, Korean society has become one in which older people are generally discardable. Despite the statistics for wealth, younger people have abandoned most Korean traditions and older people now die alone and in aching poverty at staggering rates. Also, the traditional deference given to the old (according to class) is slipping away in all but superficial ways. The aged often have no connection to the modern Korea, and you can see them hanging out in community and neighbourhood centres, sitting in unkempt parks as passersby fail to even see them, shuffling around aimlessly in semi-abandoned neighbourhoods where nobody would ever condescend to give them a head-nod. It’s sad and disheartening, the kind of modern alienation that accompanies intense city life.Welcome to the Modern World, dialed up to maximum.People, People EverywherePopulation pressure. You can never escape from people. There are people everywhere, all the time, in every place you want to be. It's great, until you want to be alone or to relax. Good luck with that. Even smaller cities are just jam-packed.Cultural, Racial and Ethnic ChauvinismKorea has a tendency to be - not to put too fine a point on it - racist. There’s a lot of juvenile commentary on this, and it’s a complex sociological subject, but let’s just say that the “race-nation” is not a dead subject in Korea. Its roots may be deep, it may be early 20th century, and it might be odiously fascist in tone, but before anyone gets all observational-wise, you should note: the study of this subject requires far more than armchair social commentary and a Wikipedia page. The origin of Korean “Specificity” in cultural contexts is a hotly contested and deeply studied thing, and requires nuance and lots of context to explore.It’s receding slowly, but the instinct to paint foreigners as dirty, disease-ridden, socially toxic invaders of the holy body politic is still there. From time to time, you’ll see MBC reports about the depraved antics of some (insert dirty, disgusting socially toxic foreigner here). Ignorant Koreans are numberless, just like there are ignorant, self-satisfied jerks anywhere.But there’s a very clear hierarchy. If you’re black, you’d better hope to God you’re American, because at least black Americans are seen as “Western” - while you suffer for being black, you get a few pluses for being Yankee. If you’re Nigerian, thanks for coming out.Racial insensitivity is everywhere. You’re just not of the “Minjok” - you are not Korean. For westerners with their own brands of racism, it’s weird to see this operate against SE Asians and Chinese, too; the class differential can be pretty harshly applied to people not “of the body” who still look like locals. It’s also usually pretty easy to spot, say, Chinese living in Korea: different modes of dress, different ways of walking, modes of speech (even in Korean), accents, etc.Chinese will be treated as markedly inferior to Koreans and Westerners, perhaps one tier down; this is a big drop and it’s highly noticeable. Some people love Japanese, some hate them unaccountably, a result of pretty intense socia-cultural attitudes that still percolate pretty deeeply in society.Education is no guarantee of liberal attitudes. Once you introduce yourself, you may find the lower classes more prone to stereotypes, but weirdly more open to personal interaction. It’s usually upwardly mobile, often educated types who will show off the greatest difficulties with breaking ignorant stereotypes.Anyway, wherever it is you came from has a different variety of the same problem. Deal with it. if it’s a problem for you, if all you’re going to do is whine about the selective racism of Korean society, you really need to live elsewhere. Korean society is in a constant state of flux and change, perhaps one of the most dynamic places in the world - or ever to have existed. Whatever you say about Korea today may not be true tomorrow morning. More and more Koreans are essentially international citizens, and the generation gaps in Korea are more like chasms. If politically correct activism is your bailiwick, you need to stuff that in a bag and keep it stashed in some deep corner.On the other hand, being able to see the human race for all its faults and joys without the barrier of an officially approved cultural/political dogma is illuminating. Nothing moderates your own chauvinism or racism better than seeing the irrationalities of other racisms at play.A good piece of advice: Try to distinguish between cultural ignorance, chauvinism, racism and other forms of intellectual discrimination. These are not the same things, and in Korea, you have a great opportunity to parse them. You’re going to have to do this if you’re going to navigate life here.And remember: *You* are a foreigner. Your commentary may be sharp or even clever, but ultimately, you’re an observer; when you choose to participate, be smart about what you say. That doesn’t mean not challenging the status quo - by all means, do it. But you need to try as hard as possible to understand what’s going on - really going on - before you dismiss the entire place. It takes energy. My experience has been that Koreans welcome honestly meant, even deeply felt criticism if it’s based on genuine interest and solid observation, even if they find it uncomfortable. What won’t be welcome are crude, lazy criticisms that miss their mark.Korea is a unique place, but it’s also a cauldron of living societies with real people. Treat it and its people and even its problems with the respect and seriousness they deserve.These are a few of the negatives that will hit you after living there for about half a decade. There are a lot more, just as with every other country in the world. And if you get outside of Seoul, you’ll have different experiences. Pusan has a very different energy, and is both more inwardly and more outwardly focused; Gwangju and its environs are slower and more laid-back, with beautiful countryside and a very different social environment. Taegu is a bit isolated within Korea, culturally (It’s not Seoul, and it’s not Pusan, and it’s not small, but not big - kind of in the middle zone of not having anything remarkable about it). Take a trip to Geoje-do or Mokpo or Sunchang or Jeju or Jeonju and you enter into oddly parallel worlds that barely resemble big city life - or each other.The islands in the south, off the coast, are stunningly beautiful. The mountains in the centre of the country and the north are green and hide picturesque valleys. There are temples on the sides of mountains that look like they’re out of a traditional painting, and mist-drenched valleys rest majestically between rolling peaks covered in green, accompanied by the sound of bubbling streams trickling over rocks and cascades. Needless to say, the country as a whole is a remarkable place. It’s one of the gems of Asia, poorly explored and underappreciated.But while its people are great and the culture one of the great additions to the human mosaic, like many places, its social order leaves much to be desired. Some people love Korea, and will never hear a bad word said about it, as if they’d converted to a new religion, and it gets tiresome to hear them in their “Hoo-Rah!” phase aggressively defend every stone and blemish as if their lives depended on it. Some people hate Korea and life here and grumble constantly, and listeners get tired of wondering why they’re here - just leave, then, already, and go back to the microworld where you came from - you’re not made for the outside world.If you want to see Korea for what it truly is - and appreciate it on that level - it makes sense to be neither blindly exuberant or negative: Try to see Korea as another place with real people. See its good features for what they are, and yet, at the same time, be open to understanding the things that make it a tough place to be.Understand the people. Understand the place. Don’t spend too much time passing judgment, and make a place as best you can.It’s a remarkable country, but in the end, it’s a place like any other and the people bleed red, just like you and me. And no matter how bad a particular day might seem, Koreans are, by and large, wonderful people on their good days, and that’s true for everyone in the world. We need to remember that.
This is based on the experiences of an ex-pat (me) who lived in the middle of South Korea for a year working as an English teacher. I actually loved living there for the most part - the more active lifestyle, the ‘fresh’ school lunches, the ease of public transportation (to an extent)…However, there were problems. You just learn to deal with them.Society as a whole is still largely homogeneous, even in the cities, though there are pockets of foreigners here and there. Most everyone there is Korean so they do discriminate. It may not be on purpose, but they do. They even discriminate against their own people based on skin color (the lighter your skin, the “better”). This is somewhat of a thing throughout the continent of Asia though. Whatever is different still isn’t very much accepted as a whole and if the person is more accepting or open, it’s likely because they did some traveling out of the country.The culture is still largely more traditional. It’s also a bit more advantageous towards men (think Confucianism), though it is changing with younger generations. I was surprised to find out that I visited more of the country than my coworkers - some of which had never left the city! It’s mainly just a routine of working and going home, rinse and repeat.They place a lot of weight on age and the way you interact is very much based on it. I often knew someone’s age when meeting them for the first time before anything else. If you’re the same age, you’re “automatically friends” but if there is an age difference, the older one takes the more protective and caring role whereas the younger one generally (should be) more obedient. It got confusing because the Koreans thought I was Korean when I wasn’t and everyone was confused on how to treat each other. I apparently also act Korean half the time without knowing it. Anyway, mom and pop restaurants also like to serve you things “for your own good”. When I tell you I’m vegetarian, I mean that I’m vegetarian. I do not need freebies like seafood thrown in. Thank you. Good thing: I was a bit more lenient as a vegetarian when I lived there (especially since mainstream Korea’s not all that veggie-friendly) and would pick out the meat and eat everything else, but I don’t anymore.Appearances are everything. In America, you may get a car for your Sweet Sixteen. In Korea, you may get plastic surgery to make your future brighter (more job opportunities). People in certain districts begin to look very similar… it gets a bit disconcerting. The good thing is that I gained somewhat of a fashion sense and learned to wear heels (still not all that great), but you realize that in Korea, both men and women care for their appearances, whether it be clothes, hair, or make up (yes, there is make up geared towards men). They put a lot into it because if everyone makes good grades (they’re memorizing machines in school), the only thing that can set them apart further are their looks. Resumes always include a photo (which are also often photo shopped). Most of the feet of females I saw were scarred from walking around constantly in heels. Being thin is a thing. While there, I was the fittest I ever was and I was still on the squishier side. My coworker literally only drank tea for lunch and the side profile of her midsection was only slightly wider than the width of the palm of my hand. SHE DID NOT NEED TO GO ON A DIET. No one did. If anyone, it was me, haha…Societal pressures galore! Asians tend to care a lot about what other people think so you get pressure from your parents, pressure from friends, pressure from your boss, pressure from every direction, really. The work relationship is that the youngest one gets shunted all the work that no one else really wants to do and you suck it up or else you get fired. The trend is that you’re the “Yes (Wo)Man” to your superior(s). Although teachers are well-respected, there are Open Classes where the principal, other teachers, and parents are invited to sit in on one of your classes. Never bug a teacher during this time; it is the most stressful time EVER - even for the kids. Yes, the teacher are not against bribing. Basically, what comes out of this decides your future with the school and I often see that the teachers actually rehearse the class with the students so that everything is memorized down to the students’ responses. Also: no such thing as sick days/leave unless you’re on your death bed. I had a coworker who slit open her thumb while preparing things that there was a trail of blood leading out of the room. She was back in the office after getting stitches less than 2 hours later working again. Why? If she doesn’t, she’ll be seen as not as hard working and people will talk. She’s also the youngest teacher there other than me, but I was the token foreigner so not all the same rules applied (but it did because I feel like they treated me as an honorary Korean half the time - I only took one sick day after being sick for a week in hopes of finally getting rid of the bug and they checked on me so often I never got the rest I needed and I just gave up).This leads to a lot of drinking. The drinking culture there is ridiculous and starts young. It’s common to see people stumbling down a road together haphazardly holding each other up on a weeknight to get away from it all. As a note, it is a way to sort of relax around your “superiors” though… and to temporarily let down your walls that expectations and roles put up. Ups and downs, I guess, but I think more downs than ups.Distinct lack of individuality. They’re not “trained” to be individuals as Americans are. I had the biggest problem trying to get my students to think out of the box and I taught in an elementary school. They would ask for examples and I would see my same exact examples laid out before me when it was their turn. However, they were excellent at memorizing - even to a scary level. If you asked them to think for themselves though? Not so much…. Of course, there were a couple of people that stood out, but it was mostly those who had spent some time of the country (this also isn’t very common).It may not be my place to say but their education system appears to be one-dimensional. This is also linked to the above. I can’t say it’s all bad because it’s not like the American education system is excellent, but they focus more on grades which means memorizing. Also, students see their teachers more than they see their parents. They’re literally at school then at supplementary schools after actual school called hagwons to study even more before they get home late at night. Also, when I say “late at night”, I mean 9 PM to even midnight. If they don’t go to hagwons, then perhaps it may due to financial issues, but those students also don’t perform as well (another sad thing). Speaking of which, you can’t fail your students so they will always move on to the next grade. I had 6th graders who never learned their ABCs as opposed to 6th graders who wrote pretty decent papers and made good presentations only in English. People that get behind tend to stay behind… Perhaps a little more balance? It’s interesting how you see these Asians with perfect language scores but when it comes to actually speaking, there are loads of issues. Less paperwork and memorizing - more applying and practicing. I’m sure they know this so that’s why people like me were employed - but they were also often afraid of failing or looking bad in front of others (again: they care a lot about what others think) that they just don’t take full advantage of everything.And those are some of my points to add on to the other answers!