
Why do people buy Hyundai cars when they are so ugly?Not that I am really into front-line sales now, however, the transition from being a part of aspirational brands like Jaguar Land Rover and Maserati to a mass-manufacturing brand like Hyundai was not easy.It was a personal challenge for me to accept the brand that I am heading now, Hyundai.I always found the design of Hyundai vehicles sold in India a little insipid, that was much before they unleashed the Fluidic design. The present lot of cars being sold in India are far from boring. TheElite i20, Elantra and the Tuscon are increasingly being considered as good-looking by potential buyers and owners.People who buy them for aesthetic reasons.People have different reasons to buy or not-to-buy cars.I drive a made-for-India Xcent for reasons other than the design:It’s reliable.It’s feature loaded.Features that I use and I need.It has ample space in the rear for my family.Decent boot space to fit enough luggage for the weekend trips.Is not particularly expensive to maintain.The warranty on offer is the best in class.My company pays for the fuel.…and I am not rich enough to afford a Jaguar or a Bimmer.Redirect NoticeApologies for my general lack of taste for all things beautiful.I find this car quite alluring!
I’m not sure how you came up with that idea.This is a stock photo of the car that my wife drives, a 2013 Veloster Turbo. I think it looks great. And styling was a big reason for choosing it over some of the other cars we looked at.There are many other things going for this car in comparison to the others we looked at when we bought it. We decided we wanted a small hatchback, for a combination of low cost, practicality, and maneuverability, but we also wanted some power. There were three options with a 200+ hp engine in a smaller car paired with an automatic transmission: the Veloster, the Kia Forte5 (basically the same car, as Kia is owned by Hyundai), and the Ford Fiesta.My wife liked the Veloster’s styling not only the most of those cars, but the most of any we looked at, including the ones with less power that we really didn’t enjoy that much. Furthermore, the 10-year/100,000-mile powertrain warranty was a huge selling point (she has a long commute), and we got a great deal on the car. And it had a lot of features (leather, keyless start, and a great stereo) that were uncommon as standard features on cars this inexpensive (I can’t use the word “cheap” because the car doesn’t feel cheap at all).She has 48,000 miles on hers and it still puts a smile on her face. And the only problems we’ve had with it have been a radio with a clock that resets itself, rear seat belts that jam if you put the folding seat backs up too fast, and poor radio reception when the rear defroster is on. We haven’t even used that great powertrain warranty!As for the logo, if you’re buying a car primarily based on that, you’re doing it wrong.
When the most-recent Elantra and Sonata body styles came out I thought “if there was ever a car (not counting some out-of-my-price-range luxury cars) that could get me away from buying SUVs, that’s the one. I thought they were unique and looked a lot nicer than other sedans in their price range.Funny how opinions work.
As a former salesperson for Hyundai, there was a lot I had learned in the two years selling cars to people who wanted one.One of the biggest selling points was Hyundai’s amazing warranty plan for every new car sold off the lot.In a nutshell, every new car has a 10 year, 100,000 mile powertrain warranty which covered the engine and the transmission during that time. Something breaks? It’s covered. No questions asked.They also have a 5 year, unlimited miles roadside assistance warranty, which is a huge help if you were ever stuck on the side of the road. Hyundai has that covered as well.Finally, and perhaps the biggest point of all, is what Hyundai did during a tense time in 2008.Hyundai had shown it had truly cared about the general public by launching a new program called “Hyundai Assurance”. Something no other competing car brand had offered.Hyundai Assurance stated that if someone had lost their job, they were free to return their car for up to a year after purchase.After announcing this, Hyundai’s sales rose 14% while the entire U.S. auto market fell by 37%.Ultimately, a purchase decision is made on more than just looks.To a younger, first time buyer, looks are perhaps the most important aspect of buying a car.But as you get older, your buying habits will likely change as you meet your spouse, buy a home, have a family and so on.Suddenly, you’re more focused on the benefits of buying from a certain brand manufacturer instead of just the looks.And that’s exactly what Hyundai focused on.
I don’t see ugly here:Those head and tail lights complement the aerodynamic design of this beauty. They’re offering this sedan at a budget price. What more can you expect? If this is ugly, either you should redefine ugly or forget everything you posted and just admire that car above.