
I am a native Chinese, and I have some friends from Korea. I want to talk about something more than the statements like “Chinese netizens hate everything.” Actually, I can easily find many “news” as what you described online, and here I want to talk about the real things happening in Chinese internet. Moreover I want to show some reasons, and give a systematic analysis.I What’s the main rumors in Chinese internet about the South Korean?1)Application for the list of world heritage for some cultures like Chinese characters, Dragon Boast Festival event, and the traditional Chinese medicine etc.Figure 1.1 - the Dragon Boast Festival vs Korean Danoje Festival2)The statements that some famous persons are the descendants of South Korea. The list of the persons is quite long including Li Bai ( one of the most great poets in Chinese history), Cao Cao (one of the most famous powerful persons in the history of three kingdoms) and Sun Yat-sen (father of the modern China stated by the government)Figure 1.2 - The name of people in turn: Li Bai, Cao Cao, Sun Yat-sen3)Plastic surgery and other prejudices about some cultures of the Koreans.Figure 1.3 - A PLASTIC SURGERY hospital in KoreaII What’s the improvement now?1)The major media now have clarified the most of the rumors as above, and the news about clarification about the rumors is easy to be accessed online. The above picture shows a news from one of the biggest media Wang YiFigure 2.1 - Title of news: ” The six rumors related to the Korea”2)The culture of Koreans become popular in Chinese society not only for the rich people but also for the poor. Some culture in Koreans are even considered as the sign of vogue. Many girls in China choose plastic surgery, and the detail is in 2013 about 22485 Chinese people come to Korean for cosmetic surgery. The number accounts for 70% of people who come from foreign counties to South Korean in 2013. With the current tendency, the most of prejudices can disappearFigure 2.2 - Hot TV play: Descendants of the sun3)There are actually many positive impressions for the South Koreans like the girls of South Korea are beautiful, the boys of the South Korea are handsome etc. There are even some group of people who are addicted to Korea culture which are called the koreaphile in China.4)The majority of Chinese have favorable impressions more than negative impressions on South Korea for example the Movies of South Korea and other cultures.Figure 2.3 - Three famous South Korean MoviesIII Why do the rumors exists ?1)Compared to the large population of China, the Chinese netizens are just small group of people. Another fact is that the academic background of Chinese netizens in the net like Baidu despise are mainly below undergraduate . If you want to hear the real sound from rational Chinese and you can choose Zhihu (A Chinese Quora net). I think this kind of group exists in in every country in the world, and we call them the angry young men.2）A bad habit as discrimination in fact exists in China even inside the large country. For example, the people from Shanghai are also considered to look down upon people from other region like the North of Jiangsu province.3）The rise of nationalism in the world including China, Vietnam and the UK . From my view that many Chinese people are brainwashed by nationalism, and it also makes them sensitive to these kinds of rumors.Figure 3.1 - The parades of nationalists in China, Vietnam, and the U.K.4）Many sources of rumors used by the media in the mainland China are from the media in Taiwan region of China . A great deal of their commercial medias are good at spreading rumors without scientific confirmation. It’s a true story that the relationship between Taiwan and North Korea is not that good for some historical reasons. A typical example is that a famous Taiwan’s newspaper as China Time creates some rumors as “ The South Korean claims that Confucius belongs to Korean ” and they even states that the news was cited from The Chosun Ilbo (An official media of the South Korea). Some medias in Taiwan create the spurious news owing to some commercial or political reasons, and the media of the mainland may quote the news without confirmation, which may results in the spread of rumors of South Korea. For similar reason, people of many nations like Japaneses and Chinese give Korea a satirical name called “The country creating the whole universe”.5）The increasing number of starchasers is another aspect that we should notice, and the fact is the number of starchasers in China is amazing among which the fans of South Korean celebrities make a big contribution. Chinese netizens may hate some crazy behaviors of fans of South Korean celebrities. Another reason is the jealousy mentality of Chinese netizens . Some Korean singers or actors and even the country become the target of sarcasm.Figure 3.3 - Fans welcome Li Mingao (a famous Korean actor) in China6) The misunderstanding of the culture of each other, and for some historical problems, the cultures of Korean and Chinese are similar. Some of their cultural heritages are somewhat similar, which makes some of the Chinese netizens accept the idea that the Korean “stole” some cultural heritages. If the people of two countries can try to know the real culture of each other, they can find the common things and the differences ( the Dragon Boast Festival and Korean Danoje Festival for example)
Chinese netizens hate everyone, especially other Chinese netizens.They are not worth taking seriously.
I do not read modern Chinese so I have not had any opportunity to read what Chinese netizens post on Baidu but as others mentioned, my first guess is that they are probably saying nasty things about others as well as Koreans. Rudeness on the internet is common.Why Is Everyone on the Internet So Angry?We have a similar problem in Korea where people were being rude and offensive to each other online. A government agency in Korea even tried to start a campaign to post nice things on the internet. I am not sure of the results.Korea Internet White Paper 2015As for whether “Koreans claim that Confucius is Korean” is actually true, there are quite a few fringe theories floating around the internet so I would not be surprised if someone found a Korean posting on the internet claiming such things. But I doubt there are any serious historians in Korea who say so.One of the answers mentions Koreans trying to claim to the UNESCO’s World Heritage registration that Dragon Boat Racing is Korean. The whole story is discussed here:https://web.stanford.edu/group/s...It sounds like an enterprising local government official in the town of Gangneung (on Korea’s east coast) tried to register a spring festival in his region which falls on Dano (May 5 in the lunar calendar). This coincides with the Chinese holiday of Duanwu (actually uses the same Chinese characters). The paper does not mention whether the festivities in Gangneung include dragon boat racing but I never heard of any dragon boat races while growing up in Korea. In fact, I would guess most Koreans associate dragon boat racing with Hong Kong!Regarding plastic surgery and Korea’s status within the tributary system centered on China, there are other answers here and on the internet.
I saw a news saying that Chinese netizens in Baidu despise Koreans.They are not in Baidu but on Baidu Post Bar, a forum and a heaven for trolls to vent. I'd say it's pretty much similar to 4chan or 2ch.Most sentences they say have an “all” as the attribute.Back to the topic. Chinese citizens’ negative feeling towards Koreans is basically about the THAAD thing these days. Before it was the arresting Chinese fisherman thing.Culturally there is not much negative feeling. Han chauvinists may dislike Korea inventing its own language but that would be all.
Aside from the obvious that certain people on the internet hates everything, the Koreans do have a less than stellar reputation within Asia in a lot of aspects, they’re very competitive and kinda rude about it quite often, and heck their language and general culture is certainly on the aggressive side by the standards of East Asia (granted, China is probably close enough these days.)I mean, for many people the image of the girl in My Sassy Girl is kinda their lasting impression of Koreans ;)