
While Taiwan island has been de facto self-ruling since 1949 and the Communist Regime never ruled Taiwan, there are a several legal facts which I think most people conveniently ignored.Before I answer this question, let’s get some facts straight:Taiwan is the name of island, a geographical designation. The name of the nation is Republic of China. Independent-minded Taiwanese deliberately trying to confuse the two, while other often use “Taiwan” as a shorthand to avoid confusion with the mainland, but they are fundamentally not the same thing. Calling Republic of China “Taiwan” is like calling Kingdom of Spain “Iberia.” The two designations overlap, but it’s more like two things superimpose upon each other.And this is the OFFICIAL map of Republic of China TODAYin other word, Officially, While government in Beijing considered Taiwan as a “renegade Province,” officially, government in Taipei considered mainland China is being “temporarily occupied by the Soviet puppets who stolen the mainland while Republican Revolution Army was busy fighting Japanese.”It is a far cry from the reality on the ground, as ridiculous as Ukraine and US map still included Crimea as part of Ukraine today.But, So, what is wrong with holding a referendum to be independent from China?Because denizen of Taiwan will violate its OWN Constitution!And because Republic of China was born during the “Century of Humiliation,” the part of Constitution which governs the change of territory of the land has a very high bar that it is almost impossible to pass.So, legally speaking, if Taiwan want to hold the referendum to break away from China, it has to amend Republic of China’s Constitution FIRST.And if you amend the existing Constitution too much, the act itself in effect become a revolution.So, Taiwan is in a bind. In order to become an independent nation, Taiwan has to overthrown its own Chinese government FIRST.And Chinese on the other side of Taiwan Strait, Communist or not, with two Opium Wars and two Sino-Japanese Wars still fresh in their minds, are not going to sit still while this happens.* * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *So, before you rallied behind Taiwan for their independent aspiration, please tell them to get their act together and fix Taiwan’s own legal hurdle first!While you are at it, you might also want to ask what kind of sacrifice Taiwan denizens willing to make, both blood and treasure, for their independence cause!
Third Session 10th National People's Congress and Chinese People's Political Consultative ConferenceDo you guys have any idea, that Chinese People’s Congress ratified the Anti-Secession Law with a record-breaking 2893-0 poll, in 12 years ago?Read article 8 pls.“Article 8In the event that the "Taiwan independence" secessionist forces should act under any name or by any means to cause the fact of Taiwan's secession from China,or that major incidents entailing Taiwan's secession from China should occur,or that possibilities for a peaceful reunification should be completely exhausted,the state shall employ NON-PEACEUL MEANS and other necessary measures to protect China's sovereignty and territorial integrity.”It is a 999999-volt circut around Taiwan. Mainland could accept everything they do in the circle, beforehand guranteed a “bad end” once touch it.A “Indepencence Referendum” is surely an act touch it, that’s why it never gonna really happen.Cuz Mainland and US do not want to see Taiwan got fried on electrified fence, so it simply won’t. Nothing Taiwanese could do about it.Then why mainlanders strongly opposite Taiwan do such a referendum?Isn’t referencum a good thing to acclerate reunification? They vote yes, make sure the state get authorized, or let’s say obligaged, to launch war. Termintate Taiwan-issue ASAP.Of course NOT. This idea is terrible! Taiwan is like a steak grilled 20% done, eat it too early would cause stomachache. All of their fault would be blamed to central government, and we gonna pay the subsidy to 23 million bosses.See: Taiwan’s democratically elected government is retiring 3 old nuclear powerplants, sealing the 99.8% finished newest one, whilst prohibiting coal ones. The average salary in Taiwan haven’t increase for 20 years, how could things possibly go any worse to mainland side?They are degenerating.Mainland could just wait the sole pillar of Taiwan economy - electronic OEM - get crippled by themselves. Then in a bitter life, they would find back some sanity, and learn to behave nicely.Since 1979, mainland side kept offering “1C2S”, “keep everything untouched except diplomacy and military”, only seeking a unification De jure. Such a deal is no longer heard again since 2014. It is a vewy vewy dangerlous sign to Taiwanese , but they are still enjoying populism carnival. 70 years of sinophobia education and propoganda, plus a democracy without counterbalance, do you expect the disease of populism could be cured before some very unconfortable things happened?“We are just looking forward what the last-breathing regime would have to sign on, in 2020s or 30s. Sustain longer please, so longer we can watch your suffer as a return of favor, for what you traitors did to our father and grandfather.” This is the thought of many mainlanders, especially the younger generation.Quite a lot of politician in Taiwan were thinking how to manipulate the fading ethnical identity of Chinese to work for “Taiwan Independence”, such as this thought of “referendum”. However, they are never wise or daring enough to consider the reactive force: how such fading of emotional tie gonna affect the other side, the overwhelming side.The cleverest ones among them already smell it in a dead silence of Mainland offical voice. They were just cursed by their folks for “You don’t love Taiwan!”Mainlanders did not impose any sanction over Taiwan, or treat it as what the rival of civil war (without any peace or ceasefire treaty) deserves. Mainland government were even willing to offer trading treaty ultra-unfair to its own side and other trade partners in favor of Taiwan. Afterall, Taiwanese still screwed their own future.So, as the long-term trend of Taiwan’s downfall is very unlikely to change, the mainstream opinions in mainland just no longer care about the island. They are looking it delightly in a grim view of bystander, like audience watching an awkward circus with smile, waiting for someone really swallow fire or nailed by flying dagger.
It can but the referendum will be meaningless without international support.When mogolia got independent from China, the referendum happened only after a Sino-Russian treaty. Most countries recognized mongolia as a sovereign state thereafter. Without international support, independence referendum means nothing and can achieve nothing.The problem is, no one would recognize Taiwan. Considering the political climate in Taiwan, military takeover will happen sooner or later, but a referendum or similar circuses are not going to be its trigger.I'm afraid what you have typed is erroneous. Many "new" countries have been created by the vote of the people, and have received recognition from a host of countries in their region. History records a long list of these new sovereign states in the last century.Yes, in the last century, it was mainly because the USSR and the US had reached agreement on a lot of edges, including wiping out the influence of old Europe’s supremacy. Old colonies became independent states. This was especially obvious in Africa, when the USSR and the US struggled heavily for the the new dominance in the region.After the collapse of the USSR, these newly born countries were basically taken over by NATO, and influenced by China thereafter. Without the support of both major powers, Taiwan can't be independent right beside china. Not possible. Ireland is an interesting similar case, but China doesn't have the flawed-at-the-time parliamentary system of Great Britain.Your assertion doesn't conflict with mine. What I'm saying here is, people's will is important, but without accumulated power and resources, the will is going to turn out to be nothing but riot.
Such an action would be meaningless, since Taiwan’s issue is not the de facto reality, but the nominal facade that is put forth to maintain relations with the rest of the world. Taiwan doing so would simply provoke China into using military force, and I sincerely doubt most Taiwanese people are ready to fight a war over this yet.
Freedom by decree is not freedom. At best it’s a document with collectible value.Asking permission to do something is all very civilized, but the traditional rule of conquest and liberation will always have the final word. Summed up; You can be king of whatever you can be king of.For better or worse, as long as a Human can be rendered not alive by pummeling one with small stones the alive/not alive equation will always be the final factor in international politics.Even with civilized international politics like at the the UN, Human suffering is the number one weapon of choice. Sanctions and embargos aren’t targeted at leadership, the intent is to spur the governed to enact change.You can go looking for allies that will support your quest for freedom with guns and money, but you've got to have something of value or you'll be like one of the pop up countries in Africa.Because liberation is conquest in reverse every third party that helps is expecting to gain something, or at least not lose something. Taiwan simply doesn't have or protect anything anybody except the Chinese want. Until that changes Taiwan is on its own in any active pursuits of sovereignty.Taiwan voting and evangelizing to alter their relationship with China is pointlessly dangerous at this time. It's always a grave mistake for rebellious liberation to wave its best people at an opponent that can't be beaten. You just get the writers and speakers and forward looking people involved locked up and/or killed. Those people are required for soverignty. Better to maintain a message and wait for the right opportunity to take action.