
Vietnam was ruled by China for over 1000 years, but that was the story of more than 1000 years ago. Most countries in Europe were colonized by the Roman Empire around 2000 years ago. Do you consider France, UK, Germany, Spain as “ancient, inseparable part of Italy”? Before the first Chinese domination which was in 111 BC, Vietnam did own some areas which are parts of China now. So do you consider those Chinese areas as “ancient, inseparable part of Vietnam”?Someone mentioned things like succession or inheritance, which is one of the reasons. But no one clearly mentioned the population, language, and culture, which are the main differences between the cases in Vietnam and Taiwan.Although being colonized over 1000 years, the main population in Vietnam was still Vietnamese (or more specifically, the Kinh people), the language was still Vietnamese. Since China government didn’t directly control Vietnam, only a small amount of Chinese was sent to this remote area to rule the local people. In over 1000 years, we (Vietnamese) kept fighting against the rulers. We actually succeeded sometime so China didn’t continuously rule Vietnam over 1000 years.From 938 AD to 1858, Vietnam was independently governed by Vietnamese. Actually, during this period, Vietnam wasn’t as independent as we are now. Every time when a new Vietnamese dynasty was formed, the new Vietnam’s king had to show some respect to China by sending an emissary to China to ask the China’s king for acknowledging his title. If he didn’t do so, the China would feel disrespected by a small country like Vietnam and he might answer by invading Vietnam again.After all, during the entire history since 4000 years ago until now, we spoke our own language, we had our own writing system (i.e. Chữ Nôm since 13th to early 20th century), we had our own culture which is affected but definitely not identical to Chinese one, and most importantly the vast majority of population was Vietnamese.The story is totally different to Taiwan. We Vietnamese all know Taiwanese hate China and don’t want to be part of China. But we think that is just something like people in a self governing territories hating their mother government. I even think that Catalonia has more right to be an independent country from Spain since they have their own language and culture. As a Vietnamese, I cannot distinguish Taiwanese and Chinese except their governments. In Vietnam, the percentage of Chinese is just 1.1% of the population whereas that in Taiwan is 95% (according to Wikipedia). Taiwanese speak Chinese, share the same culture with Chinese. The modern government of Taiwan was originated from Chiang Kai-shek - the president of the republic of China. Taiwanese singers and movie stars fly between China and Taiwan frequently. Taiwanese stars (as well as Hongkong stars) come to China to sing or join a movie/drama just like Chinese. Can any Taiwanese find the different between the Chinese actress Zhao Wei and the Taiwanese actress Ruby Lin when the two stars played the roles of two Chinese princesses in the China-Taiwan drama My Fair Princess. Except movie/drama related to modern Taiwan society, all historical drama/movie made by Taiwanese are about things happening in ancient China, and cannot be distinguished from the one made by Chinese film makers. When China claimed the stupid Nine-Dash Line which effectively consider Taiwan as part of China, there are still famous Taiwanese stars like Ruby Lin and Wallace Huo who support this claim. In a survey conducted in Taiwan in 2016, over half (51.2%) of Taiwanese really want independent. This mean there is a huge number of Taiwanese still consider themselves as Chinese. This never happened in Vietnamese thinking, not in 4000 years ago, not during the 1000 years of Chinese domination period, and definitely not since Vietnam got the independence 1000 years ago.
A2A.Many people gave great answer already. I do not recall my history taught me China occupation in Vietnam. The only knowledge I have is ancient China once dominated northern part of Vietnam. But it is not important, because I’m sure the OP is intended to ask for the legitimacy of claiming Taiwan. When a dynasty defeated the previous one and inherited its territory, it only legitimately rule what was the previous one had. Just like a person inherit a property. What has lost by the previous dynasty is lost unless you put a war to take it back.Theoretically, Taiwan province has not lost yet. Same to ROC, mainland has not lost yet. Mainland and the islands are still one China, ruled by two Chinese political parties. Each political party occupy one piece, and vying for the rest. Obviously there much less likely for Taiwan to win the tug war. Its youth lost interest and wanted its government to “forget it”. From Mainland point of view however there is a good chance it can win the tug war, so why give it up?Things became muddy is the “democracy” gets in as a disguise to a simple territory dispute. Democracy can get the situation no where as it is irrelevant. If Taiwan youth choose to rather rule a small island with full international recognition rather than rule the whole modern China and Mongolia in text book and constitution, they have to align with their own political party and fight their own fight. Sitting there asking questions in Quora will do nothing remotely useful.
The most decisive factor here is succession or inheritance.When China’s ruling in Vietnam was put to an end and no dynasty had ever managed to recover it, following Chinese dynasties and states lost the right to inherit that ruling position. Vietnam became foreign and independent to China both in politics and in culture.In the case of Taiwan, however, China still has the right to inherit. The Qing Dynasty ceded Taiwan to Japan after losing a war. If Japan didn’t lose the WWII and surrendered, Taiwan would very likely remain as a Japanese territory. Because the Republic of China would have lost the right to inherit Taiwan as a piece of its territory from the Qing Dynasty which gave it up. However, Japan lost, surrendered and returned Taiwan back to Qing’s successor, the Republic of China.The Republic of China was in fact terminated in the civil war, at the end of which the People’s Republic of China was founded in 1949. PRC, after capturing most of ROC’s territories, became the apparent successor of ROC. This is why PRC stated that Taiwan is an inseparable part of it, according to its right to inherit the country from ROC. However, this PRC was unable to capture Taiwan. ROC is still there sitting in Taiwan. So, after all of these events, this Taiwan problem is an unfinished business of the Chinese civil war in the eyes of PRC and probably pan-blue Taiwanese.There is a strong political will to rule Taiwan, or at least control Taiwan, at the PRC side. This line of succession theory serves as a convenient theory to justify such a political will.The Taiwanese Independence movement basically argues that Taiwan has nothing to do with this Chinese line of succession. They just want Taiwan and Taiwan alone. A bit inconvenient truth is that most Taiwanese are indeed Chinese people, speaking either the Chinese mandarin or Chinese ‘dialects’. The indigenous Taiwanese population only accounts for a tiny proportion on that island. This fact motivates PRC to strongly hold its claim, because PRC positions itself as the country for all Chinese in the region.————————————————————————————————————For those who argue that ROC is still alive. This is my response:Six reasons why ROC is terminated:Taiwan is in fact an independent country. Only the name and the constitution haven’t been changed due to pressures from outside. But the constitution has already been adjusted to exclude the mainland and the mainland people from the administrative power of the ROC government.Taiwan has its own election which does not respect nor represent the interests of mainland people.The mainland accounts for most of the territory, and all major historic territories, including the capital city.ROC lost major official international recolonization.No political force in Taiwan is capable to regain/gain control of the mainland.The ruling party in Taiwan wants a full Taiwanese independence. And, it is widely supported.The problem for China is that the fall of ROC in Taiwan left Taiwan for pro-independence Taiwanese, making the issue more complicated than what a civil war could ever address. In a civil war, there is no dispute over the national identity. However, in Taiwan, a separate identify is rising as we speak. So, now, even if Taiwan magically joined PRC, it is going to be a ‘hot potato’. (This is really a lesson for communists that they shouldn’t have left problems unresolved for too long. )
China’s claim on Taiwan is not based on historical rule, but on a serial of treaties signed during and after WW II.Cairo Declaration — “all the territories Japan has stolen from the Chinese, such as Manchuria, Formosa, and The Pescadores, shall be restored to the Republic of China”Potsdam Declaration — “(8) The terms of the Cairo Declaration shall be carried out and Japanese sovereignty shall be limited to the islands of Honshu, Hokkaido, Kyushu, Shikoku and such minor islands as we determine.”Japanese Instrument of Surrender - Wikipedia — “ポツダム宣言の履行及びそのために必要な命令を発しまた措置を取る”
Because the Celestial Empire doesn’t have any great interest to take control of Vietnam after it’s lost it firm grip of Annan at 938 A.D.And any invasion of Vietnam are mostly due to hot-headed Generals or Emperors that seek personal fame instead and will not last long enough for a major change of National Identity and Culture that can get Vietnam into the Empire’s grip firmly.For ancient China dynasties,their world view were as follows.As you may see,the core interest of the Celestrial Empire is to maintain its firm grip on the China Proper region and to deal with the Nomad tribes from the North.And due to the communication problem of ancient times,for a Emperor sitting at Beijing,he at most can closely monitor the situation of the Northern Core Region and the Yangtse core region,And starting from Canton and the inland province he will need to give up more autonomy to the locals.For the Yunnan and Guangxi,until Qing Dynasty,when the Manchu Court ordered the act to confiscate the power（改土歸流）of the local feudal land lords(土司） and transfer that power to the officials(流官） that are sent by the central government,a lot of local ethnic minority were under the control of the landlord instead and their “loyalty” to the Emperor are only lip service.So,for the best interest of the Empire,invading Vietnam is not really a bright Idea.As you may know,Vietnam nowadays consists of two major parts:As you can see,the landscape of Vietnam is well-protected by the Mountain Range at the Northern side of its border.And even if the Celestial Empire’s Army manage to break through and take the Northern Core Region,the Vietnam Ruler can always go South and keep fighting.And so that will makes the Celestial Empire caught in a embarrassing condition:(i)Far away from capital and due to the crappy road between China and Vietnam,supplies and reinforcement will not arrive in time when needed.(ii)The ethnic minority at Guangxi are not reliable.(iii)Locals constant revolt.(iv)Crappy Climate(Sub-Tropical to Tropical) and tropical forest will easily hinder the ability of the troops that comes from the North .(v) Hard to clamp down the remaining Vietnam force at south.(vi)The Emperor will take a lot of blame as he spent army and wealth only to find the cost of war is too high to cover any potential benefit.(vii)The Good-for-Defensive landscape of Vietnam may allow the General to raise up and become a warlord/King himself if the war prolongs.Yup,Just like Korea,the invasion of Vietnam will cost a lot and may bring little to the Empire,and any average ruler will not try doing that.That makes Vietnam can enjoy its independence from ancient China and not becoming the “ancient,inseparable part of China”.