
In our eyes, they are both ChinaPeople's Republic of ChinaRepublic of ChinaHowever, most if not all of us recognises People's Republic of China as the legitimate government with mandate of heaven and Republic of China as the government which loses its mandate of Heaven since 1949.There are a few different perspectives due to different types of people, let me elaborate belowMalaysian Chinese favoring ROCMostly come from Independent Chinese Secondary Schools established throughout Malaysia. Reasons as follow:Chinese Secondary School Students were taught about the History of China especially during the 1900–1949 period and the textbook is written in favor of the ROC. This one sided perspective kept a lot of them in dark about the progress of the Chinese History. Well, you can't really blame the textbook for being politically correct, since Communism is in fact a very very very sensitive topic in Southeast Asia especially. The textbook CANNOT be written in a more neutral way.They are more influenced by the Asian trend especially the ROC, Korea and Japan like the rest of Southeast Asian. The only difference is that since they are Chinese Educated, they are more prone to Taiwan's influences. Hairstyle, way of dressing, haircuts(boys), slang… One more example is that a lot of them are aiming to study in Taiwan for post-College education. And probably take up a job there.Picture taken from: 一個獨中生的分享(Does their hairstyle looks familiar to you?)2. Female adults at the age of about 30–40These were the teenagers of 1970–1980, which is also the golden era of Taiwan Economic miracle and their height of influence. Influx of Taiwan's 1000++ long drama series, films and especially the Novels caught the heart of these ladies that most of them until now, still read.They are the more hard working ones, reading more books, novel, etc and perhaps are the reason why they are more inclined to ROC-Taiwan-style-Chinese than the man of their age.Malaysian Chinese Favoring PRCMostly those who attend English/ None Chinese Secondary Schools teenagers. Reasons as follow:Used to be a student from a Private Secondary school(Wesley Methodist), I would say I learned most that I know now about China, from scratch, and thus is exposed to varieties of sources and perspectives. And secured my own perspective uninfluenced, due to lots of different influences- a Paradox.2. Adults male at the age of 30–60These are the adult that were not really influenced by Taiwan because there was something more viral-Hong Kong Entertainment industry. Most of these young boys grew up in Cantonese influenced, especially in places like PERAK, Penang, KL… Although a lot of them are Hokkiens, Hakkas, they are literate to Cantonese and Cantonese were seen by most as the more superior language/dialect due to the prosperity of Hong Kong City.To continue my point, Hong Kong's drama such as the Hui Families’ movies(许氏喜剧) are Mainland based, and occasionally mentioning PRC government. These Performing Arts painted Mainland China with favorable hue, although sometimes with a little sarcasm. Movies of such subconsciously instill that virtual patriotism they feel for Mainland. As they grew up, they naturally become more PRC-China-style-Chinese when their interests in history cause them to read more China-Related Books.This is a short comedy clip by Malaysian Chinese(张少林) in various dialects and it almost perfectly reflects my first point in 2.The contract: A story about Urban Life of a typical middle income in Hong KongFront Page: A story about life as a writer, publisherAs a Malaysian, I personally view PRC government as the legitimate government for obvious reasons, and I have my little 5 Star Red Flag with me too even in Singapore!Conclusion: Therefore my conclusion is, for the ones who are more interested following the current “trend” or mainstream culture, they will go with ROC-Taiwan, and for those who loves Chinese History genuinely and REALLY put in efforts to do research and studies they will like PRC China more. So long PRC continues to represent its citizens and its culture, support for it will never dies… Yet, we also have another one way love for our Country, Malaysia, too!Thank you for reading to the end ;)