
As a mainland teenager, I would like to come up my analysis by personal experience and history.The Answer is Adults and Most Teenagers Know It.In the last three decades, children have a cognitive gap on this issue, because of the government's weakening of political publicity in education and the change of domestic political environment.1. History AnalysisThere are 3 periods in history:In 1950s-1970s, Chinese government carried out a lot of publicity for the civil war.This period's slogans: Liberate Taiwan(Chinese:解放台湾), Reunification of the motherland(Chinese:统一祖国)In this period, people of all ages know the truth.After that, the Government policy objectives  is changed,  focusing in economic development.In 1980s, Deng Xiaoping formulated a constitutional principle: One country, two systems (Chinese: 一国两制) Therefore, the problem was widely discussed in public.People of all ages know the truth, too.Since 1990, Chinese government reduces the frequency of mention of Taiwan in public.The 1992 Consensus is the latest achievement in this period.Then the political progress of Taiwan and the mainland was stopped for 20 years.After that, the frequency of mention this problem has become very low.So the age that people born after 1990 realize the truth has been delayed, which caused a cognitive gap.2. Personal experienceWe have taught that Taiwan is one province of China (without any political propaganda) in primary school. And we learned geometric and historic knowledge of it as same as other provinces, too.Our National Map is Like That. We learned it in our second grade of junior high school. We will know the situation is made by a civil war and some key events in history class, but the textbook don't mention the details and the current situation of Taiwan. I don't know what they are thinking. I guess the government don't want to talk the awkward situation or just tell a lie as a simple solution.The truth was not directly mentioned in official media. However, some publications will discuss the issue. Some children would know the truth before they learn it in school.Based on my experience, most teenagers know it from Parents, Relations or Internet. There could be more ways.3. More Details and OpinionWhen I realize the truth that Taiwan is not controlled by our government, I felt very puzzled. It happens in my first year of junior high, when I read some Internet webpages in a Cafe. After that, I talked it with my friends and teachers to exchange our ideas. And I started to get more info from other resources, which finally makes me better understand the problem.I still hope to make some efforts to fix it because most of us consider it as a non-international issues. I consider that the teenagers of Mainland and Taiwan should work together to find a way in such a complex situation. And I hope Taiwan's problem can be fixed like Hong Kong and Macao.4. Related InformationHistory of TaiwanPolitical status of TaiwanCross-Strait relations
The answer is of course yes. But what really interests me is why people in the West have this type of questions. I feel that there is a very fundamental misunderstanding about how we define China, and how we define Taiwan.Many Westerners seem to have this oversimplified concept in mind, that there are two countries, one called Taiwan and one called China, and those stupid brainwashed Chinese believe Taiwan is, or should be, a part of China. Haha.No. Not that simple.When you say Taiwan and China, you are actually referring to ROC (Republic of China) and PRC (People's Republic of China). And that's okay in everyday conversation. But if you want to have a serious discussion, let's first get the terms right: Taiwan is not ROC, and China is not PRC.The fact is, both ROC and PRC are China, and you can tell that from both names. More accurately, they are two governments of China. This is not something new -- China has had hundreds if not thousands of governments claiming to be the sole legal ruler in its history. Dynasties rise and fall, but China is still that same country.Prior to 1949, ROC was the ruler of China. Since PRC was founded in 1949, both governments claim to be the sole legitimate one, and refuse to recognize each other. However, that does not mean ROC has stopped being China and has become a non-China "Taiwan" country.And what is Taiwan? Taiwan is a province of both ROC and PRC. ROC controls not only Taiwan province but also a small part of Fujian. The ROC-controlled area, or the Free Area of ROC, is often referred to as Tai-Peng-Kin-Ma (台澎金马), meaning Taiwan, Penghu, Kinmen, and Matsu. Kinmen and Matsu belong to the Fujian province. As you can see, Taiwan is not ROC. It is only a part of it.TL;DR: Both ROC and PRC are China. Taiwan is a province of both.So, what do we really mean by "Taiwan is a part of China"? Are we saying "ROC is under PRC's control" and blindly believing in it? Of course not. We are arguing that ROC should not drop "China" from its name and start being non-Chinese, which, fortunately, hasn't happened.Taiwan being a province of China, is not just Beijing's claim. It's also written in Taipei's laws, maps, and textbooks. The only difference is, here China means ROC, not PRC. But still, Taiwan is a province. This is a legal fact. The Democratic Progressive Party (DPP) and their supporters may not like it, but their opinion is an opinion, not a fact.
/* Special thanks to Didier Szende for edit suggests! */TL;DR: Yes.Here I would like to share a point of view about the Taiwan problem, as a Chinese mainlander.Summary:There is no Taiwan country, just another regime claiming all of China's territory. The relationship of regimes in mainland China and in Taiwan is just the relationship of the United States and the Confederation.Taiwan is not, and never would be a nation-state.1. Some definitionsTaiwan is a geographical concept, including the main island and some small islands around it.China is (still) a cultural-geographical concept, referring to a large landmass in east Asia and people living on which, including Tibet (some part of) the Mongol plateau, and no doubt, Taiwan islands.The PRC is a political entity claiming power on the whole (geographical) China.The ROC is fairly similar to the PRC, a political entity claiming all of China.(Upper left: PRC flag. Lower right: ROC flag)NOTE: Yes, the current ‘Taiwan’/ROC government is still claiming all of China.2. A brief history and relationship between the PRC and the ROCSome history here.Before everything below, Taiwan and all China territory were ruled under the last Chinese Medieval dynasty, Qing. It was prosperous, but could not resist conquest and colonization by modern nations.In 1895, Taiwan was ceded to Japan due to Qing’s loss of the first Sino-Japanese War.In 1911, Qing was overturned by a revolution. According to Qing’s abdication announcement, “A great Republic of China would inherit the full territory of all people in Qing”. However, this revolution did not lead to a peaceful and strong new China, but to a lot of military forces fighting against each other. Legally all forces were merely captains commanding the central government’s army, but none of them gave respect to the government. Actually there was no central government at all more often than not!In 1920, the China Communist Party (CPC) was founded. Its goal was to take control of and communize China.The leader of the revolution, Sun Yat-sen, assigned his failure to prevent disorder in the whole nation to not controlling a strong army, and not getting support from peasants and workers. (Notice more than 99% of Chinese were peasants at that time). So he rebuilt his party, the KMT (Kuomintang, China Nationalist Party), trained a new army in southern China, preparing to fight northward and remove all warlords, reunite China.KMT and CPC were in alliance, started the northern expedition.The northern expedition went well, but Sun got ill and died. He asked KMT to continue his dream, to ‘bring freedom and democracy to China’. So did the KMT, but the party changed its altitude towards the CPC. The KMT leadership considered Communism evil and ‘cleared the party’, killing a majority of CPC members. But still the Northern expedition continued.After all, almost all warlords were wiped out. Legally, this KMT regime, calling itself ROC, is undoubtedly the successor of the Qing, and Taiwan shall be considered part of it, though under the control of Japan.This was the ‘golden decade’ of the ROC. China reunited, some construction and industrialization began, everywhere went peace. Except of some army chasing the rest of CPC.Then Japan came and invaded China.After a coup, the KMT and the CPC became allied again, resisting Japan together. The KMT, as the central government, fought against Japan in large cities and battlefields, the CPC went guerrilla fighting Japan in the regions they controlled.Thanks to the USA, Japan lost. Taiwan returned China (KMT’s ROC).(Taiwan celebrates liberation. Notice KMT badge on the building.)At this time the CPC was no longer a pitiful small force owning less than 30 thousand men, but a million-soldier army. It did not forget its goal: to control all of China.Nor did the KMT. They continued the civil war and the KMT lost. The government of the ROC fled to Taiwan, and why did not the CPC go forward to ‘free’ Taiwan? At that time, though they had a strong army, the CPC had no navy. It had even no boat capable to sail across the Taiwan straits.In 1949, the CPC founded the People’s republic of China (PRC). It never gave up the effort to take Taiwan back.(PRC poster. “Taiwan must be liberated”)(ROC banner. “counter-attack the mainland, unite China”)/* Warning: the history written above is extremely simplified and have countless mistakes. Please ask your professor or wikipedia for more accurate and detailed reality.*/The PRC and the ROC are rival regimes both claiming all of China, both mainland and Taiwan. Since they never signed a peace treaty, technically they are still 'at war’. There is no independent government like ‘Taiwan government’. The ruling regime of Taiwan, the ROC, is not a nation-state of ‘Taiwan people’, since we (mainlanders and Taiwanese) are a same nation, Chinese.3. What if China invades Taiwan?This question itself cannot be answered, just like we cannot answer “What if America invades Texas”, or “What if the United States invades the Confederation”. The politically correct and correct question is “What if the PRC defeat the ROC and reunites China?”.4.Why must China unite?This is a millennium tradition of China. In our history, empires rise and fall, barbarians conquer and flee and surrender, and China unites and divides. But all regimes dedicate their all power and effort to seek and maintain unity. We abandoned feudalism more than 2000 years ago, and the Emperor ruled over every inch of land directly, by sending bureaucrats to the locals. In Chinese ancient document Shi jing the Poems wrote,“Every piece of land under the sky are no exceptionally King’s soil, Every people within the border of our territory are no exceptionally King’s subjects."We unite to build the Great Wall, we unite to build the Grand canal. Under a same flag, we share prosperity and happiness. Divided into pieces, we bleed and starve. These memory are throughout China history. This is the Chinese national memory.5. Will China unite?In the long term, yes. In the coming years, no.Beijing's attitude is “We shall unite, but we don’t want to use military force."Taiwan's attitude is “Well… Just keep the status quo.”6.Thank you.For reading this long and boring, amateurish article! Please forgive my broken English.EDIT: Grammar
Yes.People in mainland China are aware of that Taiwan is controlled by another government and another army, but this doesn’t matter that Chinese people believe that Taiwan is a part of China. Hated debate focus is that which government is legal in presenting China.Most countries in the world admit that PRC(People’s Republic of China) is legal government, including US, Japan, UK and so on. But lots of people in these countries may not think so. That actually worries Chinese.So this question may be little stupid for Chinese people, but maybe this is not strange. Actually, I also can’t understand why Taiwan still refuse to accept unification. Mainland China has provided a solution of “one country, two system”, which means Taiwan could maintain its system and army for a long time after unification peacefully, and PRC would be the only one present of China in the world. That would bring peace and development, and Taiwan would be a special administrative region enjoying support from Chinese Central Government. Life in Taiwan would not change and Taiwan would indeed gain more chance to develop. So it puzzles me that why Taiwan refuse unification. Maybe Taiwanese are fear of being controlled, but I don’t think that PRC has interest in controlling Taiwan. A rich and peaceful Taiwan is what they really want to see.What I really don’t want to see is that mainland China and Taiwan drop in war. There is a poem in China written by CaoZhi, who was threatened by his brother. The main meaning of the poem is that why should we be opposite now that we are from same origin.
Though the question is phrased from a biased viewpoint., I try to approach it neutrally, focus on the ideology, try to picture how I perceive Taiwan and ROC government before and after I was there.  First of all, the separation between mainland China and Taiwan is addressed significantly on our history textbook, as well as political discussions. Regarding this, I would say every educated person knows that Taiwan is governed by Kuomingtang, the party who used to rule the whole of China. Although most mainlander consider Taiwan is part of China, or Taiwan and the mainland belong to the same country. It sounds contradicting but true. Our history book or political discourses cautiously avoid using the term Republic of China(ROC) when referring to Taiwan because the Communist Party claims Taiwan is part of PRC. On the other hand, Taiwan is ruled by the government called ROC, and when Taiwanese say "our country, my country", this usually excludes the mainland.  Given the resolution by United Nation in 1971 (Wikipedia:United Nations General Assembly Resolution 2758 | Wikiwand), PRC government interpreted it: "China regains legitimate seat in the UN, since it deprived PRC's legal rights for 22 years." (that's what we learn from history book) while it’s better to write this way: PRC replaced ROC to represent China in the UN.  Generally, I didn't do much research on Taiwan and the politics. Thus when I arrived Taiwan, I did get a complete new (and mind-blowing) perspective.Like when we went throught the border control at the airport: (read: Republic of China, Entry clearance)That time a strange feeling struck me: what? This place is called "Republic of China"? Isn't it a term we use to refer the historical period from before 1949?After this, I gradually discovered more than more showing the identity of ROC.  Minguo calendar is used on newspaper and on Taiwanese' identity card as well as the Gregorian calendar. More than more I also find the flag of ROC is everywhere, and usually used to represents Taiwan, it's common to see pictures like this:To be honest, I didn't realise that our Taiwan counterparts watch another flag in their everyday life like we do with five-star PRC flag. The film "you're the apple in my eye" cut scene that ROC flag appear in a flag raising ceremony when it comes on mainland video websites.  Then I realised Taiwanese view China differently from Chinese and vice versa. They say they're abroad, or "I'm in China" when they are visiting mainland China. In fact I feel very weird when I was asked "when will you go back to China". But I'll never say the same when I am in Taiwan. I find in my mind I can't take Taiwan out of the concept China, yet in comparison most Taiwanese people I know don't like mingling the word Taiwan and China. It's likely they feel an authorised country when they mention "China". Moreover, quite a lot of people would claim:" Taiwan is Taiwan, China is China, two different thing", which took me a long time to accept. On the other hand, people seldom say they are from ROC while they hold ROC passports. Finally I choose to maintain my idea that Taiwan is part of China, but respect their Taiwanese identity rather than Chinese. Because I know their frustrations when foreigners guess they are from Thailand if they say their country start with alphabet "T", or even feel sad when some people don't know where Taiwan is. Everyone needs a sense of identity, we are lucky because China has worldwide recognition. We can easily say we are Chinese. However Taiwan is not an identified country even if every domestic function runs perfectly as a legislative nation-state. I would say sadly, ROC has no legal recognition international while that's how this region is ruled.  In conclusion, we know that Taiwan is not a PRC government-controlled region but we strongly agree mainland and Taiwan both belong to the family "China".