
Below are sort of the sine qua non of Chinese grammatical words and particles. There are still (many) others, but I think this is a good start. Fundamentally, however, the best way to get a grasp on them is to read as much as you can - preferably texts with thorough glosses and editorial notes that’ll teach you the subtle ins-and-outs through commentary and example.Examples are given in Traditional Chinese with citation. Where possible, I’ve translated the examples such that they display the word in question best - they’re not how I’d necessarily translate it in a general case, but it’s meant to focus on that word and be an example for usage.之: Refers to two general things (with subsets) - the Classical Chinese version of 的, and the accusative pronoun.There are other usages that are rarer (for instance, 之 as a verb “to go”), but at this point, it's best that you just get the basic usages down.In the first case, it is equivalent to the modern Mandarin 的, or, in other words, is the genitive marker in formal Chinese and Literary Chinese:《論語·公冶長》“子貢曰：夫子之文章，可得而聞也；夫子之言性與天道，不可得而聞也。”Zigong said: The Master's display of rites and music may be perceived and heard, but the Master's words on the nature of man and the heavens cannot.《孟子·公孫醜上》“[公孫醜]曰：若是，則弟子之惑滋甚。”[Gongsun Chou] replied: In that case, your disciple's bewilderment has increased greatly!As with 的, it can also be used to link adjectives and relative clauses with a noun:《孟子·梁惠王上》“萬乘之國弒其君者，必千乘之家；千乘之國弒其君者，必百乘之家。”He who murders the lord of a state that has ten thousand chariots shall be he who has a thousand. He who murders the lord of a state that has a thousand chariots shall be he who has a hundred.Or the idiom “七步之才,” literally “ a talent of seven steps,” referring to a vast literary talent - so-called because Cao Pi was forced to extemporize a poem within seven steps.In these circumstances, the implication isn't that the chariots own the country or that the seven steps have talent, but they're descriptions of the country and talent, linked with the genitive particle.In short, mostly it's a find and replace with 的.The second common meaning of 之 is as an object pronoun, as in the “him” in “I hit him.” Modern Chinese has shed this differentiation, with 他/她/它 being used whether they represent the subject or object of the sentence.Examples:《詩·週南·關雎》“參差荇菜、左右采之。窈窕淑女、琴瑟友之。參差荇菜、左右芼之。窈窕淑女、鍾鼓樂之。”Long and short is the duckweed, left and right we gather it. A maiden fair and modest, with zithers large and zithers small let us welcome her. Long and short is the duckweed, left and right we pluck it. A maiden fair and modest, with bell and drum let us show delight in her.《左傳·隱公元年》“莊公寤生，驚姜氏，故名曰寤生，遂惡之。愛共叔段，欲立之。”Duke Zhuang was born in breech, which pained his mother, Lady Jiang, thus was he named “Breechbirth” and so his mother detested him. She loved his younger brother Gong Shu Duan, and wished to enthrone him instead.It can also be used as the indirect object pronoun (here, 與 means “to give” rather than “with,” and is the formal equivalent of the modern 給):《論語·雍也》“子華使於齊，冉子為其母請粟。子曰：「與之釜。」請益。曰：「與之庾。」冉子與之粟五秉。”Zi Hua was on a mission to the state of Qi when his disciple Ran requested some millet for his mother. Zi Hua said: “Give to her a cauldron’s worth.” Ran asked for more. Zi Hua said: “Give to her a grain enclosure's worth.” Ran gave to her five bing of grain (approx. 4,000 liters).There is also the use of 之 as a verb, meaning “to go to,” as in:《孟子·滕文公》“滕文公為世子，將之楚，過宋而見孟子。”Teng Wen Gong, at the time prince and heir, was going to go to Chu, he passed through the State of Song and so called on Mencius.This meaning is, if not precisely rare, at least far less common than 之 as the genitive particle or direct/indirect object pronoun.其: The possessive pronoun.I wanted to bring this up in connection to 之. If 之 is the direct/indirect object pronoun, 其 is the possessive pronoun, equivalent to 他的.《論語·子路》子曰：其身正，不令而行；其身不正，雖令不從。The Master said: A prince, when his conduct is correct, can govern without issuing commands; when his conduct is not correct, his commands will not be obeyed.It's also used as a sort of ersatz third person pronoun.《孟子·萬章上》“親之欲其貴也，愛之欲其富也.”Affectionate toward his brother, he wishes that he should be honorable [lit. “desires his honor”]; loving his brother, he wishes that he should be wealthy [lit. “desires his wealth”].乎: An end-sentence particle expressing doubt or surprise. Perhaps most importantly, it's used to signal an either doubtful or fully rhetorical question.Like many Chinese characters, 乎 in some texts has an idiosyncratically different meaning, replacing either 呼 or 於. That's something of a non-standard use, though.So it can be used as an exclamatory particle, much like modern Chinese 啊:《論語·里仁》“子曰：參乎！吾道一以貫之。”The Master said: “Shen! My way is that of unity as truth!”In this case, it might be rendered into Chinese as “參啊！”It can also be used to indicate doubt as to a question's expected answer:《論語·學而》曾子曰：「吾日三省吾身：為人謀而不忠乎？與朋友交而不信乎？傳不習乎？」Zeng Zi said: “Each day I examine on three points: in my dealings with men, whether I may have been unfaithful; in my association with friends, whether I may have been insincere; and the precepts of my Teacher, whether I may not have practiced them.”As you can see, the 乎 doesn't lend itself well to translation except by way of tone - it suggests a sort of doubtfulness that promps increased inquiry.And finally, perhaps most importantly, we have the use as a rhetorical question:《論語·學而》“子曰：學而時習之，不亦說乎？有朋自遠方來，不亦樂乎？人不知而不慍，不亦君子乎？”The Master said: To study something and, on occasion, to practice it - is that not a happy thing? To have friends come visit from far away - is that not a joyous thing? To have men not know you, but not be perturbed by not being known - is that not being a gentleman?Here, the questions are made rhetorical by the addition of 乎 - sort of like an end-sentence particle equivalent of 難道.者 - The Agent NominalizerThe short story is that 者 nominalizes a verb or phrase. What that means is that it takes a verb or phrase, doesn't alter it, and identifies to the reader “you should take this whole thing as a single noun.”Basically, in English, 者 is often rendered as “he who,” as well as -ist and -er.For instance: A者 becomes “He who As,” as in, 食 (eat) becomes 食者 “he who eats.” 殺 (kill) becomes 殺者, “he who kills,” or “murderer.”We can also take a whole phrase and put it under 者, signaling that we're referring to the agent of that phrase.《左傳·魯莊公十年》十年春，齊師伐我，公將戰，曹劌請見。其鄉人曰：「肉食者謀之，又何間焉？」劌曰：「肉食者鄙，未能遠謀。」乃入見。In the spring of the tenth year of the reign of Duke Zhuang, the armies of Qi attacked our state. The Duke was about to give battle when Cao Sui asked for an interview. One of his countrymen asked Cao Sui, “The meat-eaters [i.e., the aristocracy] have planned the battle, who are you to get between them?” Sui said, “The meat-eaters are base, and cannot make long-term plans.” And so he entered for his interview.So we can take a phrase (食肉, “to eat meat”), slap 者 at the end of it, and get 食肉者, “he who eats meat.”所 - The patient nominalizer.Whereas 者 turns a phrase into a noun in the form of A者 = “He who As,” 所 turns a something into a noun and defines it as the object of the action - in other words, it's something like a passive.In simpler terms, if 食者 is “that which eats,” 所食 turns it into “that which is eaten.” Alone, it's sometimes paired with 者 - as in 所食者, but that's far from required.《論語·顏淵》己所不欲, 勿施於人。That which you do not want, do not do to others.《論語·為政》子曰：視其所以，觀其所由，察其所安。人焉廋哉？人焉廋哉？The Master said: “Watch what a man does (lit. “his that which is done”), observe his motives (lit. “his what is caused”), investigate what he rests in (lit. “his which is rested”). In such a way, how can a man conceal his character? How can a man conceal his character?As you can see, 所 constructions can be tough because they can be immensely idiosyncratic to Classical Chinese.It also has an important role in the passive sentence construction: A為B所C, or “A was C by B.”《漢書•霍光傳》衛太子為江充所敗。Prince Wei was defeated by Jiang Chong.也 - The statement marker.也 feeds into our discussion of 者, because the combination of the two yields the most basic sentence pattern of Classical Chinese: “A者B也” or “A is B.”As an example:《司馬遷·史記·蘇秦列傳》蘇秦者，東周雒陽人也。Su Qin was a native of Luoyang in the Eastern Zhou.It's the pattern for writing a sentence of identity.It's common to say that 也 is the Classical Chinese copula (i.e., the Classical version of Modern Chinese's 是), and in many cases, it seems to operate this way. Really, though, it's not, and Classical Chinese doesn't really have a copula - except, some might argue, certain uses of 為.Rather, aside from that key A者B也 sentence pattern, it functions much like an end particle. Specifically, it gives the previous statement an air of certainty and assertion, or of judgment.We can borrow an example from above to see this in action:《論語·公冶長》“子貢曰：夫子之文章，可得而聞也；夫子之言性與天道，不可得而聞也。Zigong said: “The Master's display of rites and music may be perceived and heard, but the Master's words on the nature of man and the heavens cannot.”Here, 也 is used to mark the statement as an assertion of fact: this can be done, this cannot be done. So it's somewhat close to Modern Chinese 啦.為 - To make, do; for; is.為 is the closest thing Classical Chinese has to a copula (along with other words such as 乃, which in this sense it is equivalent to). Much as the A者B也 construction, A為B is for identities.《唐詩三百首·感遇其二》欣欣此生意，自爾為佳節。Joyous all this vitality and life, and nature is a festival.It can also mean “to do” or “to make.” We can see this in the following idiom:為善最樂To do good brings the greatest joy.Here, 為善 is a verb and object. 為, to do; 善; good, excellent (here, it's a noun).As in Modern Chinese, it can also mean “for,” or “on behalf of.”《左傳·隱公元年》及莊公即位，為之請制。When Duke Zhuang ascended to the throne, [his mother] asked for the city of Zhi on his (i.e., his brother's) behalf.矣 - The 了-like sentence particle.矣 is relatively straightforward - it is an end-sentence particle that expresses the fact that the events of a sentence are either already completed or are inevitable.《孟子·公孫醜上》天下歸殷久矣，久則難變也。The realm had been under Yin's charge for a long time, and, since it was such a long time, change was difficult.《論語·述而》子曰：聖人，吾不得而見之矣；得見君子者，斯可矣。The Master said: A sage, such a man is not mine to see; if I were to see a gentleman, however, I would be satisfied.哉 - The exclamatory sigh. That's also an interrogative.哉 is yet another Classical Chinese end particle - though it can be used on its own - and it usually used to express either a sort of exclamatory sigh similar to English's “alas!” or “ah!” It is also an interrogative particle somewhat similar to 嗎.It is also similar to 乎 in that it can be used as the marker for a rhetotical question. As such, you can see the two characters joined for especial emphasis: 乎哉.It is in many cases basically interchangable with 乎.As an exclamatory sigh:《論語·秦伯》“子曰：大哉，堯之為君也！巍巍乎！唯天為大，唯堯則之。”The Master said: Ah, great indeed was Yao as a lord! And how majestic! Heaven alone is grand, and Yao was in accordance with it.As an interrogative particle:《詩·邶風·北門》已焉哉、天實為之、謂之何哉。Alas, what's done is done! Heaven has done this - what am I to say?Here, 哉 forms together with the generic question word 何 to form the interrogative 何哉, roughly meaning “what.”As a rhetorical question marker:《孟子·滕文公下》匡章曰：陳仲子豈不誠廉士哉？Kuang Zhang said: Is Master Chen Zhong not a sincere and scrupulous man?Here, the actual operative words that make it a rhetorical question are 豈不 (“難道不”), but 哉 is also here to add to the rhetorical tone.焉 - A conjunction of pronoun and preposition - in/to/on/from it.As I was taught, 焉 is in fact a conjunction of 於之, 於 being the general Classical Chinese preposition and 之 being the pronoun reading.《論語·衛靈公》子曰：眾惡之，必察焉；眾好之，必察焉。The Master said: When the multitudes hate it, one must look into it; when the multitudes love it, one must look into it.It can also be used to mean “how,” replacing the somewhat more prosaic 如何.《論語·先進》季路問事鬼神。子曰：未能事人，焉能事鬼？敢問死。曰：未知生，焉知死？Ji Lu once asked how to serve the spirits of the departed. The Master answered: “If you cannot serve the living, how do you serve the dead?” He then ventured to ask about death. The Master replied: “If you do not know about life, how can you know about death?”爾 - “That's all.”爾 has a couple of meanings, the most important of which is pretty much as the second person pronoun (equivalent to 汝 and 你) and, as well, a demonstrative pronoun (roughly equivalent to 此，其，那).《孟子·公孫醜》爾為爾，我為我。You are you, and I am I.As a demonstrative:《禮記·檀弓上》子貢曰：夫子何善爾也？Gongzi asked: “What does Master see as so excellent in this?”As a demonstrative, you can see it in times and dates: 爾日 (那天) and 爾時 (那個時候)As an end-sentence particle, however, 爾 is basically interchangable with 耳, which shares its pronunciation. (This is a rather common occurrence in Classical Chinese.) In such a case, it means 而已 - “and that's it/that's all.”《論語·陽貨》偃之言是也。前言戲之耳。What Yan says is correct - what I said was in jest, nothing more.It should be said that these are all the basic meanings for the characters - there’s nuance that’s difficult to describe, and almost all of these characters have still other meanings that are seemingly unrelated to their “main” meaning. To learn about those, you’d need to a) read a lot, and b) buy a proper Classical Chinese dictionary, unfortunately.
In modern Chinese, the way those are used will not appear in everyday conversation and most likely wont appear in official documents. So using them correctly in a modern setting is quite hard .Those characters my have more than one meaning based on the context as well.It is important to note that ancient Chinese did not have punctuation. Many times these 之乎者也 indicates punctuation. Other times they actually mean something, and each mean more then one thing based on context. But because of their dubious meaning, people have used them less frequently in modern usage.“之乎者也” itself actually is a thing. It is used to refer ancient Chinese. Because all these words must be analyzed based on context and are thus very impractical for modern use therefore 之乎者也 is also used when making fun of people who writes or speaks in ancient Chinese and just looks funny strange and odd. (Like someone who goes thou thee thy thine).I will give you some common explanations. But for all the definition of one word, you need a dictionary. This is a good dictionary you can buy in China for Ancient Chinese. 古汉语常用字字典_百度百科之: Too many meanings, but possibly used to refer to someone or something. Or a “filler” kind of word to make the sentence structure better.乎: A word used to express doubt or exclamation.者: Means somebody. Could also be used as a filler.也: “Also.” Used for exclamation, used as a filler.哉: Usually exclamation. 壮哉！壮 means incredible. 哉 is the exclamation.焉: Indicates questioning. could also mean “but”爾: “you”. Could be filler as well.I know, all these fillers, lol. But those filler are necessary for keeping a sentence structure neat.
I totally have no idea about your question even if I grew up in China.In fact, there is no Chinese still uses these words in daily life or even academic research. Why do you waste time to learn this? I can assure that you even cannot find a man to communicate this with you in China.When a type of language loses, it should be lost. Chinese people give up these words because they are too tedious. Doing this would not make you looks like well-educated, just idiot.
中國人現在不常使用這些虛詞了，它們更多地出現在古漢語中（也即文言文）。現在使用之乎者也，也會被大眾認為是一種文縐縐的表達。但畢竟寫半文言很有文藝感嘛，所以大家也有人在堅持用它們，這是旁話。The Chineses don't use such words often nowadays. The words usually appear in ancient Chinese (also called Classical Styles of Writing). Today, it's an unpopular way to use these words in daily communications. However, using half-ancient Chinese is poetic. So there are still some people insisting using them. Actually it doesn't matter.在文言文中，虛詞的使用也是一門學問，很少有人能搞得明明白白。下面我會盡力為你歸納一部分文言虛詞的使用方法：The way to use them is complex, so you can hardly see someone being an expert at them. However, i will try my best to summarize some of them for you.之代詞 pronoun：夫子欲之，吾二臣皆不欲也。（語出《論語·季氏將伐顓臾》）這裡的「之」是作為代詞使用的，指代上文中出現過的「攻打顓臾」這件事；助詞 auxiliary word：虎兕出於匣，龜玉毀於櫝中，是誰之過與？（語出《論語·季氏將伐顓臾》）這裡的「之」夾在定語和中心詞間，可以理解為現代漢語中的「的」；以其求思之深而無不在也。（語出《游褒禪山記》）這裡的「之」夾在謂語和補語之間，可以理解為現代漢語中的「得」；客之美我者，欲有求於我也。（語出《鄒忌諷齊王納諫》）這裡的「之」夾在主語和謂語之間，用於取消句子的獨立性，讓這個句子變得語義不完整；動詞 verb：胡為乎遑遑欲何之？（語出《歸去來兮辭》）這裡的「之」做動詞，意為「到……去」。2017.2.15先歸納一個，未完待續。2017.2.15Quora required me to use English to answer the question. It's hard for me, because I speak poor English. However, I'll try to translate them. Don't worry.