
As every adult male in Taiwan have to go through conscription, I am no exception. Different from the most other people, I was privileged to be chosen to become a military police, which is an elite branch of ROCA (Republic of China Army). The Taiwanese military is demoralized and under trained because of the populism and politics in Taiwan. The populist party, Democratic Progressive Party has long painted the military as “corrupt, useless waste of money and space.” This has severely affected the civilian’s perspective of the military.For the starter, the average conscripts only has to serve up to 11 months mandatory service in the military. Let me break down the conscript’s military “career” into 3 stages.First stage - Recruit training. The first 5 weeks in a conscript’s military life is the basic recruit training. During this stage, most conscripts are still considered “half-civilian”, as the drill sergeants have to introduce the military culture, breaking down their spirit and shaping them into “proper” soldiers that can take orders and understand the concept of discipline. Physical training, courses about basic military formation, courses about weapon handling, knowing how to obey orders, the fundamental virtue of a military personal as well as endless drills and marching are everything the recruits will do for the first 5 weeks.To be honest they look more like high school kids going to field-trip than hardened soldiers.They will only get to touch live weapons(all the weapons we get in boot camp are disabled) once during the target practice, and for most it’ll be the only time they’ll ever fire live rounds. The firing exercise consists of mostly waiting and marching. Each recruit will only receive 6 rounds live ammunition in 2 magazines handed to them by their drill sergeant on their turn to fire at the targets. After the first 5 weeks, they will draw lottery to determine which unit they will be sent to.Fresh meat into the grinder.Second stage - Serving in the units. Most of the days in the military for conscripts are mundane and routine. It’s mostly consists of do various of paper work, cleaning the environments as well as low intensity physical training. For the most units, the conscripts won’t even get to see their weapons unless it’s during weapons cleaning or during inventory check. The physical condition for individual soldiers are largely ignored, as most units don’t enforce the physical training part due to reasons like too much paper work, lacking proper training personnel, or the COs just don’t care about it. For most of us, daily life is all about endless cleaning, grooming, and paper work.Satirical post about modern ROCM soldiers.As the tension between Taiwan and China eases, the need for combat readiness drastically dropped. Also because of the populism, and the uncontrolled free media, most units are hesitant to impose harsher training methods in fear of being sued by the conscripts’ family. This on top of high ranking military leaders only wanted to go through their military career smoothly without stirring troubles so they can collect their pension peacefully after they retire, most of the Taiwanese conscripts won’t get to play around and familiarize with their weapons. Moreover, due to the recent incident of NCO accidentally killing a detainee in the military brig, the populist party (Which is our current governing party) abolished the military court, military brig, and entire martial law system. This has created unforeseen consequences such as conscripts cannot be charged for desertion, going AWOL, or not reporting back to their CO when called.This is the most “fighting” they will do in this 11 months. And yes, the regular Taiwanese soldier’s equipment consists of a helmet, a rifle, 2 ammo pouches, 4 magazines, a canteen, and a bayonet. Most of the conscripts don’t even get to see real flak jackets or bullet-resistant body armor.Third stage - this is a special stage called 教召, which means reservist recall. This applies to every conscripts that’s been through their mandatory military service and under the age of 45 year. The basis of the recall is the re-familiarize the recruits with the military system as well as their weapons. However, due to long period of disconnection from the military, as well as many of the reserves holding high social status in the civilian world, the recall is little more than an reunion.Conscripts consists most of the Taiwanese military strength. The enlisted troops are in some what similar situation as the conscripts, except they get to receive proper weapons handling and firing training once a year, more demanding physical condition, and a more in depth understanding of the military system as well as professionalism.Panel from top left to bottom right - The enemies across the strait think I am…, My grandma thinks I am…, Officers in my unit think I am…, My girlfriend thinks I am…, I think I am…, What I actually am.All in all, the military experience in general can to summarized in one word by a lot of people, waste of time and waste of life.With those being said, during my time in the military police, I was fortunate enough to be serving with our special force units, Republic of China Military Police Special Services Company, (MPSSC). Those are the people who can actually fight in a war, and they are often the face of our military.Yes, it’s THOSE guys.Let’s just say they can finish a 3,000 meter run fully equipped with in 10 minutes, when most of the conscripts can’t even finish the 3,000 meter run with in 14 minutes in shorts and runners.Those guys are another story.Edit: It’s 11 months not 9 months. For some reason I thought there’re only 10 months in a year. Thank you Ken Kao for correction.Edit2: Now that I recall, I was the designated grenadier in my platoon, which means I was in charge of our MK19 grenade launcher in times of war. The funny thing is, I actually never get to fire one of those bad boys. All I could remember doing was I had to carry that 35KG piece of equipment around for cleaning then return it to the armory. I still have no idea how to operate MK19 to this day.
The elites are well trained, the average conscripts not so much.The service time now is short and if someone gets hurt or god forbid killed in training it’s a political shit storm that’ll see dozens of officer’s careeer ruined . So basically now they do minimal training and enforces zero discipline.
Not too well. Taiwan soldiers march past:Taiwan navy “accidentally” launched a missile towards mainland China in one of the training exercise back in June. The missile cruised for two minutes before hitting a Taiwanese fishing boat, killing one person and injuring three.Not too well.
It is no meaning to discuss whether Taiwanese training is very well.It is well–known that the conflicts between greens and blues are very serious.Soilders are also Taiwanese people.They have their own policy attitudes,which lead to heavy infighting.Not united thoughts,the troops would not have much fighting capability even with advanced weapens.By the way,there are not only blue and green but also exactly light blue,dark blue,light green,dark green and even orange.Before solving this problem,the.training is meaningless.
That’s there “unconquerable” Marine…..Oh,by the way,the short woman in the middle is there “president” and “supreme commander of armed forces”