
It changes, like <Five Stages of Grief>. Not change by time, but by the width and depth one comprehending Taiwan.Briefly, it appears like this:Phase 1, Brainwashed to have hazy favor;Phase 2, Admiration from superficial glimpse;Phase 3, Feel betrayed and fly into rage, after realizing how the media and folks in Taiwan smear mainlander, distort everything into topics for political farce, alienate the common ethnical identity, etc.Phase 4, Restore calm, then circusee, peace of mind come from understanding the downward trend of Taiwan and confidence of China’s development, knowing Taiwan is gradually becoming negligible as it is haunted by populism. The island shall be unified anyway, so just draw a redline then leave it alone.Phase 5, Resolute volition. proposing the island and people on it should not be discarded or eliminated from the rejuvenation of China. Being faithful to both ideal and reality, the status quo of Taiwan should “be used appropriately” during this progress. The intention is to seek final solution of the misery inside and caused by Taiwan, for the entire Chinese ethnic people. It is hard to explain briefly so I gonna do the detailed one in the following part of my answer.Brief about the people in different phases.People who had been in primary school of PRC, which means almost 100% of post 1980 mainlanders, were implanted opinion of Phase 1.To those who know only positive news and descripton about Taiwan countlessly shown by media, both official and social, they are at Phase 2.After the actual contact to Taiwanese offical/ people/ media on internet, the naive Phase 2 mainlander receive, in euphemism, “ultra-negative” feedback. They get upset and outraged. Almost every single piece of hawkish impulsed speech against Taiwan are come from people at Phase 3. They seems high-sounding, but actually harmless since it is just too harebrained that impossible to be practical. However IMHO, next 2 phases are way, way, way more leathal for Taiwan, but the words are hardly seen on the internet outside mainland.Fed up with Taiwanese superiority complex, Phase 3 mainlanders try to find out “where the hell all these bullsh*t come out” after the first shock. Learnt and confirmed that the atmosphere of stigma and discrimination is beyond any cure, they found that hardly any essential development had happened on that island in last 20 years. All those “pros” of Taiwan is fading quickly, but people there seems have no feeling about it. Then these once-enraged people restored calm, come to the conclusion: Evidently, Taiwanese prefer drown in the illusion which would definately cause degeneration, and they slap away the hand mainland give them, then so be it. Rot in maniac is your choice, NOMB, that only make us easier to get the land back.However, even among the Phase 4, the emotional relic of “we are compatriot” education still prevail within someone. Not everyone turned into sneering spectator of the destined doom coming to Taiwan. There are die-hard but very rational nationalist, with fully awareness of how vicious the public opinion is towards mainlander people, how contemptible the political politicians on Taiwan are inciting and playing populism, how “One country, two systems - Wikipedia” are despised among Taiwanese. But after all, these hardcore still remain moral obligation towards Taiwan, have faith that Taiwanese are brothers need cure and instruction to get reliefed from PTSD caused by long-term colonization and sanguinary rule under reactionary regime. Being either eager and cold-blood, they gave up hope on current plans, neither “peacefully wait it happen”(too indolent) nor “fast by force”(so crude) fits their purpose. Phase 5 are really bad-asses, they indeedly care about Taiwan and its people, same as a part of long-term and primarily interest of Chinese ethnic. Simultaneously, they propose to get the unification by unilateral, patient and ruthless routine.I shall introduce the reason behind each phase in details, as far as I can.Phase 1:Many answers here mentioned mainlanders are educated from pupil age about “Taiwan is a part of China”.Let me show you exactly what Chinese kids are told:<Standard Testing Textbook of Compulsory Education, Language and Literature, Upper Part for Grade 1><Welcome, little friends from Taiwan>“One boat with white sail,Drift and drift to Taiwan.Carry little friends to here.Come to my school and play with us.Our hands tightly hold together,Talking endless warm words.”What a typical brainwash of bullying!and when they get older, they study this text:<Ri Yue Tan (Sun and Moon Pool)>“Ri Yue Tan is the largest lake of Taiwan province, located up on the tall mountain near Taizhong city. It is surronded by hills, arborous woods, and historical sites.Ri Yue Tan is green and deep. There is a small island called Guang Hua Dao in the center of the pool, dividing it into 2 parts. The northern one is round, so be named Sun pool, the southern one is curvy, so be named Moon pool.Mist covers the pool in the morning. Stars in sky, lights on the mountain, indistinctly reflected in the water.Under the sunshine at noon, the beauty of Ri Yue Tan and surronding buildings are shown clearly. Once a drizzle come, Ri Yue Tan is wearing a gauze. The hazy sight is just like wonderland come out from fairytale.Many, many Chinese and foreign tourists are attracted to visit, by the beautiful scene of Ri Yue Tan.”The boy is saying “One more beautiful thing I know in Taiwan is Ali Mountain”;Then the girl says “One more beautiful thing I know in Taiwan is ____________” for homework.It is damn HOMEWORK!The overwhelming side in one of the most bloody civil war, ask 10-year kids to find all the beauty of the rival controlled area.Thanks to this desperate attempt of being nice, literally everyone had been in school have a blur but positive impression about Taiwan sealed in their heart.This is the why Phase 1 is inevitable for all youngsters in mainland.Phase 2:Despite of some suspicious statistic method, Taiwan, as an economic entity formally named “The Separate Customs Territory of Taiwan, Penghu, Kinmen and Matsu (abbr. Chinese Taipei, or TPKM)” in WTO, is indeed wealthy and developed.The GDP per-capita in TPKM is still more than twice of it in mainland.With only 23 million population, the nominal GDP of TPKM could take the place of 6th, in the rank of economy by province of mainland.Data of Taiwan: Central Intelligence Agency;and mainland China (except Macau, HongKong, and Taiwan): Central Intelligence Agency(（￣︶￣）↗　Not difficult to find nominal GDP and population, do some division)中国省级行政区地区生产总值列表 - 维基百科，自由的百科全书and above is GDP list of Chinese provicial administration in 2014 (hoping someone update it to 2015).There are mainly 3 reason mainlanders would have a favor on Taiwan in first sight,1). Quite sensibly, a rich economy means many admirable things. Or, let’s say, make a lot of things look favorable. It do exist in there. High-tech OEM industry, liberal democracy, tasty exotic food, beautiful scene, “the milk of human kindness”, great healthcare, visa-free passport, etc.2). Plus, PRC government deliberately censor the negative news of Taiwan, in order to preserve mass’ good feeling towards Taiwan, sustain and magnify the possibility of “peaceful re-unification”. The paralyzed military also made PRC do not have “tough option”. After budget sharply dropped from 7% GDP to 1% in 1980s, majority of PLA unit was almost starving.For “negative news”, I’m not talking about “small” affairs like discrimination speech or national identification. I am saying even civilians massacred by Taiwan military and police inside the ship Minpingyu 5540 on July 1990, the incident soon got banned from publishing, until internet bloom make it is impossible to prohibit spreading again in 2000s, but still not widly-known and memoried even today.Guest Editor's Introduction(It is never mentioned after August 1990, so almost impossible to find any English data, this is the only source by Google, at page 5&6.)(k, even it is repatriating illegal immigrant, but seriously, blinding-off dozens of handcoffed and tied people in cabin of a small fishboat, is never ever make sense of “Law Enforcement”. I mean, they were defecting from your mortal enemy, then such reception of freedom Taiwan treating those escape from commie tyranny is really stifling. #sarcasm)With such dedication to dinch any spark of hostility, just use ur wildest imagination to think how the image of Taiwan is beautified in mainland.3). Advocate from dissident, PRC or CCP hater, reverse-nationalist, liberalist, not-so-literate authors, lawyers incompetent in defend, has-been actors, etc. every Chinese who pro western democracy, you name it. Since Taiwan has special political significance to the Mainland, mass amount commentary touting western democracy from these people, tidily use Taiwan as a “perfect” exemplar.Saying it’s perfect, cuz Taiwan and the Mainland share same race, same culture, same language, close location, but Taiwan has a wealthier economy and better living standard.So, among all these advocate, appearntly Taiwan is more developed than mainland is cuased by one single most significant diffference, which is, political system difference (Voila! not surprising how superficial and short-sighted these poorly studied guffer could be…).Automatically, touters must impose a causality between the democracy of Taiwan, and the prosperity of Taiwan. Everyone want the proof of one’s own demonstration be as strong as possible, right? So what else could we expect.In these narrative which usually have millions of readers, Taiwan is(MUST BE) an idol nearly surreal, the beacon Chinese culture, the other shore of hope. Especially after the advantage in economy and technology is eroded so badly, they turned to f(a)i(k)n(e)d trifles emphasizing visionary opinions like “the milk of human kindness” or “deserted virtue of China in Taiwan”.To those who had only received education and media information, Taiwan is a very favorable, if not adorable, place. However, people in phase 2 is very, very rare now. Such positive feeling was once dominating, but very soon being wiped out among the youngsters.Why? there is a thing called social media emerged in last several years, which pushed a whole generation into at least Phase 3.Phase 3: No more hiding, we both know it gonna turn out ugly!In 2008, after more than 30 years of negotiation, the agreement of “direct 3 links” is signed.It was right after Chen Shui-bian got kicked out of office.He was a provocative chameleon, but stayed on power cuz his political rivals were so splited. But after 8 years, everyone get fed up with him, PRC, USA, KMT even DPP.The following 2 speaking,Four Noes and One WithoutFour Wants and One Withoutcame from same mouth within his presidency.PRC have no choice but to respond once someone tune high independence voice. To set everyone free from tension caused by irresposible political-show, National People’s Representitive Conference threw Anti-Secession Law at the face of Taiwan in 2005.Article 6: We should cooperate in these;Article 7: We can negotiate on these;Article 8: Once thesethese occured, non-peaceful method is obligatory.Since the altitude of PRC side was consolidated, KMT seeked chance to cooperate with mainland in order to return back to power. US and DPP collaborated to get rid of Chen——too unstable & Chen’s corruption family scandals tainting the renown of party.Evidence blewn from US, protest sponsored by DPP seniors to evict the president, clean-cut KMT candidate won president plus 2/3 whup in legislature, then PRC happily saw fellas in Taiwan come back to cooperation.KMT benefited a lot since its supporter are mostly tycoons (all the way same as 60 years ago) desiring invest in mainland;PRC felt just fine, given a handle to magnify their kindness was already happy enough;DPP got grievously wounded by Chen and cutting-off with Chen, temporarily paralyzed;US, “finally I don’t need to worry something like waking up in midnight reported China just launch invasion.”China's Policy on 'Three Direct Links' Across the Taiwan StraitsWith “3 direct links” in 2008, people on both side could travel, trade and mail each other. Millions of mainlanders with huge interest, visited Taiwan, meet and get contact to the Taiwanese.海旅会：大陆游客赴台累计逼近一千万人次-中新网“9.73 mainlanders visited Taiwan till Sept. 2014”.While 1.5–2 million are settled down in mainland.Almost everything goes fine, utill 2014.TBC…since 1870s, after the massive immigration started.Home MaddisonStatistics on World Population, GDP and Per Capita GDP, 1-2008 ADStatistics on World Population, GDP and Per Capita GDP, 1-2008 ADsubtropical virgin land!Director of Immigration v Chong Fung Yuen - WikipediaThe case of Zhuang Fengyuan16%->3%;on the train, or on the track, ur choice.I stay aside, did nothing in particular, why u doomed?竹科出售潮？ - [HI-ON]鯨魚網站, sell before others do;“北漂”台湾青年：为了更好的机会 必须离开台湾; 10%(!) population left hometown for chance of career;Young workers face bleak future under '22k curse'; 22k, for 20 years.Inner and outer circle, marshmallow and high-voltage grid.Don’t even have chance do dirty job by oneself? Dogfighting in whirlpool, perfect white glove.projection of illusion.The bleeding wound of entire theory system,with 3-4 opposite lessons, immune to ideology argument in next century.
Well, I'm from Nanjing, the original capital of China when KMT reigned it. Growing up in the city you cannot ignore all the infrastructure and architecture from the ROC era and the commitment KMT had put to develop the city. I also grew up in the 1990s~early 2000s, when entertainment in mainland China was not of very high quality. The music and TV shows imported from TW at the time thus gave me a lot of happy memories (there were music/shows from HK too, but the Cantonese sub-culture didn't feel as intimate).    Therefore, if KMT (or any other reigning party for that matter) continues to rule TW like a mini ROC, then I feel strongly connected to TW  probably more than many other mainland Chinese. If something like DPP prevails and turns TW into a distinct cultural entity, then TW would be nothing more than a tourist attraction for me.  I'm indifferent about whether TW should go independent per se. I AM concerned about US turning TW more aggressively against China if TW truly gains independence. This benefits no one but the US.
Let me tell you something interesting.The closer you get to Taiwan geographically in China (PRC), the more comfortable people become with the idea of an independent Taiwan. People in Fujian province, across the Taiwan straits from Taiwan, really don't care.The closer you get to Beijing, or if someone is from Beijing, the more adamant they are that Taiwan is a part of China (PRC). I mean table-pounding, fist-throwing adamant.This is a general rule of course, and there are exceptions, but I have noticed this, and have heard Chinese comment about it.
Yes, every kid here cares about Taiwan, because Taiwan is always believed to be a territory of China's.And no, nobody of my age (2000s) in China really cares about Taiwan, because Taiwanese people aren't as important as the island itself.To be honest the ethnic affection 民族情谊 between Taiwanese and Chinese is being eliminated through time. Today, many Chinese people of my generation are consumed with hatred to Taiwanese people, and a lot of Taiwanese are pretty hostile to the mainlanders.The Great Facebook Expression Bag War of 2016, and Taiwan’s teen pop star Chou Tzu-yu: how a wave of a flag caused a great flap in China have demonstrated the relationship between Chinese youths and Taiwanese youths. If either side of the Strait cares about the other, show some respect, please. The Chinese youths are strongly influenced by the nationalistic education, "Taiwan is a part of China" is something that was instilled in their mind in the grade school education, and few people have ever learned about the 1992 Consensus. As for the people in Taiwan, they don't share a common destiny with the Chinese youths. Their nationalism told them to "unite", instead of their rationality.So,Do mainland youths today care about the territory? Yes.Do mainland youths today feel emotionally associated with Taiwanese people? No.Do mainland youths today psychologically regard Taiwanese people as compatriots? No.
Taiwan is OURS!!!! OURS!!!!! We'll lock it up in our commie dungeons and never let it run free!!! Mwahahahaha ~~~~But in all seriousness, I care about Taiwan because its ambiguous position with China. Of course for me, it's part of China, always was, always will be. But part of me also believe it might not be a bad idea to let Taiwan go independent. They'll sure know how hard it is to be a small island country with very limited natural resources and no one really care about. Now they play their cards between two super powers and everything they do have some impact, but if they go independent, no one will care about them. Chinese will not care about them, America will probably play them like they played Philippines. They don't have any leverage to pull against China or US. It's not like they're still one of the "Four Asian Tigers". China is the raising power now both politically and economically.Do regular Chinese people care about Vietnam or Cambodia? Not nearly as much as they care about Taiwan. If Taiwan goes independent, they'll stop being the center of the attention, and start dealing with being ignored.