
I have lived in both. I'm going to assume you are not a fluent speaker of Chinese or from either country since I imagine it would be easy to get a point of view from people who are fluent speakers from other media in Chinese.LanguageTaiwan is a Chinese language country. Everything is in Chinese. Sometimes they have English as well but certainly not all of the time. English speakers in government departments, the medical system, restaurants etc are not totally unusual but certainly not expected, especially among lower paid jobs.Hong Kong has English as an official language. Everything official is available in English. All government services support English. All restaurants except the cheapest will have an English menu. People in most well paid jobs will speak English pretty well. All of that said, Cantonese Chinese is the ‘local’ language, what most people speak on the street and at home with their family, use in local media, and the standard when talking to most lower paid jobs.Quick version: Hong Kong is easy to live in if you only speak English. It's not impossible in Taiwan but it's much harder and you'll experience drawbacks in everyday life.EducationFrom what I can tell, the education system in Taiwan is pretty respectable. It's all in Chinese of course. (I imagine there will be a few international schools). The top Taiwanese universities I believe are reasonably respectable but don't have the international recognition of the top 10–20 schools in English speaking countries.Greater range of international schools in Hong Kong, and also some schools that are ‘local’ but teach in English to a mostly Hong Kong Chinese student population. Decent universities but nothing stand out - the trend in HK is absolutely to send kids to the US, UK or Australia to university if you can. Big range in the cost of education from free to very expensive private schools (tens of thousands of US dollars per year. ) At the other end of the scale, it's even hard to get your kids into a good kindergarten in HK - they will need to do interviews (at 18 months!)Both countries are full of Chinese people who believe that education is very important. So a lot of competition and effort being put into education. In the end - if you prefer English language, it's probably going to be HK.InfrastructureHK has good infrastructure pretty consistently but it is incredibly crowdedTaiwan (at least Taipei) is pretty good too (at least the subway, airports etc) and much less crowded. Roads and driving / motor scooters are used a lot moreHealthcareHigh quality basic healthcare in HK. If you are seriously ill, the public system will look after you for little money and has the best doctors. You can also go to private providers which can be quite expensive, who will give you nicer facilities (hospital room etc) but from what I have been told by a long time wealthy resident, not different treatment. You do need to buy medical insurance.I don't know much about the Taiwan situation, I never got sick.TaxationA very simple system in HK - tax returns are a couple of pages long. I'm pretty sure income from outside HK isn't taxed at all. Overall rates are pretty low.I didn't earn income in Taiwan so I don't know much about the system there.Don't forget that if you are a US citizen you have to pay US taxes anyway.Politics and bureaucracy(My observations - your mileage may vary)Fairly vibrant situation in Taiwan with occasional corruption problems. As far as I know this doesn't tend to directly affect ordinary people in their day to day lives. Governed by vibrant democratic electionsVery conservative bureaucracy in HK, no corruption but occasional incompetence problems typical of large conservative organisations. Governed by an electoral system that hugely favours established interests - big business, local billionaires and a few other local interest groups, heavily and increasingly influenced overall by the mainland Chinese government.Other noticeable lifestyle differencesFood. I'd say a greater variety of inexpensive and delicious Chinese foods in Taiwan. International foods are available but quality is variable. In HK I found the inexpensive Chinese food to be considerably less exciting, but international foods generally of a much higher quality (e.g. You can get a bowl of pasta that would be considered respectable in Italy more easily than in Taiwan).Rent is super expensive in Hong Kong. Probably more than Manhattan. Taiwan is cheaper.People: HK is a big city. It's a pretty anonymous place to live. I wouldn't say people are not friendly but they don't talk to strangers etc, and they are in more of a rush. Taipei is much friendlier.Jobs: Taiwan is the home country for a bunch of tech manufacturers. Hong Kong is a financial centre with some regional headquarters.Pollution: air quality is not fantastic in HK. I think it's probably better in Taipei but you might want to check with someone who frequently goes back and forth.Arts and culture: HK more plugged into the international ‘scene’ for some highbrow things like ballet, opera I think. However Taiwanese generally seen as more cultured, far more bookstores, deeper connection to traditional Chinese culture and so on. Worthwhile digging into if these topics matter to you.The outdoors: Surprisingly good range of beaches and outdoor hiking opportunities in broader Hong Kong. Probably a better range in Taiwan but not as close as they are in HK. As far as I know, no surfing in HK but some in Taiwan.I have enjoyed both. If I could get the same career opportunities in Taiwan as I had in HK I'd probably go for that because I liked the food and people more, and my Chinese is good enough and would improve more. However for most ‘expats’ HK is vastly easier from career and lifestyle perspectives due to the language.
I apologize as my info may be a bit dated. I lived in Hong Kong (HK) before the handover to the Chinese in 1997 (I lived there in 1992-1995) and in Taipei 1995-1996. I have gone back and visted both places a number of times since leaving. I am going to answer on a few things that weren't asked as well.PeopleHong Kong people are very crazy about working, and they are not afraid to take chances and many of them start small businesses. Very fast paced life style for many, and some will drive you crazy with overbooking appointments abe often canceling/rescheduling at the last minute. People in HK also tend to be pushier, with people in Taiwan  being a lot more polite and more likely to queue, etc.InfrastructureBetter in HK with more established subway and rail lines. Taipei does have subway lines now (the streets were all torn up for construction at the time I was living there), but I think the related air pollution is still worse (though HK's is getting worse).EducationI think Taiwan has a number of nouveau wealthy - farmers who sold land, whereas HK has a larger number of business people who made good. As to whose population is better educated, hard to say. Education itself is a highly valued trait I Chinese societies, but sometimes practical experience, especially business, is more highly valued in HK. I think neither area has universities that rank highly worldwide, but I would perhaps give a slight nudge to Taiwanese unis for trying to bring in outside foreign experts ( I actually lived with an Australian who taught a firm of karate at the national sports Ｕｎｉ in Taipei).Medical careIn both places it can be reasonably priced, but slow if you're using public services. I am sure that hasn't changed. One thing to note is that premium service is readily available in Taiwan at some hospitals, slightly more expensive, but more comfortable waiting rooms. You are also given priority to see specislists, something that saves a lot of time.LanguageWell, technically the official  language in HK is Mandarin, but you still get a number of locals who speak Cantonese. Cantonese is a little more difficult to master as technically you have 9 tones, though in practice only 7 are used (versus 4 tones in Mandarin). Another unusual thing is that traditionally Cantonese had no written language for many words, and thus borrowed from Mandarin. Mandarin, of course, is probably going to be a lot more useful as it is used in more areas in China than Cantonese (primarily used in HK and Guangdong or Canton province in China) as well as being used in Taiwan, Singapore, and other countries where Chinese is a main language. Of course you will run into Cantonese in many so called China towns as many Cantonese have moved abroad (primarily from HK, especially before the handover from the British to the Chinese).Taxation I think I will leave this one to people with more knowledge, though I know in practice both use a progressive tax system where in theory the more  earned income you report , the higher your taxes, though of course both places allow deductions ( and if you are a business many expense deductions). Public AdministrationI think both places do have a level of bureaucracy that can seem annoying or intimidating. Doing things will require more time. Both places can benefit from connections, but in the Taiwan I know, bribery is not going to generally get you so many places as it might in HK, especially as it is now part of China. Public ServicesMore or less the same, if you can figure out which department handles that service. Taiwan's might be slightly more efficient, but this is based on  my older experience and stories from business people I know.Geographic connectionsMostly because of politics and population numbers, HK offers much better international air connections than Taiwan with far more direct connections to Europe, N. America, and other parts of Asia. Of course, also HK's direct land connection to the rest of mainline China makes visiting there easier. EnvironmentAs briefly mentioned before, Taiwan, specifically Taipei, has worse air quality conditions. Outside of Taipei, the environment can be equally good or bad depending if you are near a factory area or not (many factories in HK often now operate on the mainland of China). Commerciall and residential waste dumping can also be a problem in both, as you will sometimes see high bacterial levels in beach swimming waters as well as trash in the woods. 
Living in Taipei-Be sure to live in the most populous places, etcTaipei, Taichung, Kaohsiung. The other places can have a bit like a country-side feel to it.- Good: The house prices are not that high as buying a home in Hong Kong= Bad: The average salary is lower than Hong KongHK salary average. HK$12500–15000Taiwan salary average HK$7000–9000= The food you find there is really cheap and delicious= Pretty good for start up businesses=Good if you don’t mind travelling for a long time to get from place to placeLiving in Hong Kong-Everywhere is safe. Like very safe.- In Hong Kong, it is easy to get to the the CBD at every district. From the Northernmost District to the CBD, it is only 40 mins travel time. Abt 60 mins if you take public transport-Train, Metro system is considered the best in the world, though Taiwan is also pretty good.-Check out the train system MTR in Hong Kong, you will be amazed!-Great for start-up businesses-If you are more of a city person, live in Hong Kong, you can find everything in your doorstep! Even if you want to go to the countryside, it is only at most 20 mins travel time, anywhere!