
The best answer is "It's complicated."  Shelly Rigger of Davidson University did a study called "Taiwan's Rising Rationalism." (http://www.eastwestcenter.org/fi...).  Her conclusions, IIRC, were that it depends on a lot of factors like age and ethnic background (benshengren, waishengren, or aborigine).  Even then, though, you get nuances of views.  Many younger Taiwanese see themselves as just that (i.e. "Taiwanese," not Chinese) in terms of nationality, yet, like many Americans, they proudly accept their Chinese heritage (those who have it) seeing their Taiwanese-ness as a complement to that part of their identity.  Likewise, younger Taiwanese don't harbor many of the same combative, zero-sum views of China.  They see China as a "land of opportunity" where they might study and work for a time, but don't view it as a place to transplant permanently.  Older folks in Taiwan are more divided.  Many of the zero-sum competitive views persist, manifest in different ways among the pan-Green and pan-Blue folks.  In my own experience (mostly with younger Taiwanese), they could care less about politics, and (when living abroad) gladly make Chinese friends.  At the same time, passing comments even by close Chinese friends will sometimes grate at them.  Understandably, they are perfectly happy to accept that Taiwanese and Chinese have much in common, but they're miffed by Chinese who don't seem to appreciate the differences that make them unique.In short, they're human and display many of the same complex, ephemeral manifestations of identity that people in other countries do.
I find that lots of Taiwanese have difficulty telling the difference between fact and opinion, or they try to make an opinion by denying the fact.You are from Taiwan. Look at your passport, it’s printed there, Republic of CHINA. So you are Chinese (and Taiwanese too). That is a simple fact.You don’t want to be a Chinese, you just want to be Taiwanese. That’s an opinion. I respect your opinion. Could you respect the fact?I understand your frustration. You don’t want people think you are a citizen of PR China.Q: Are you Chinese?A1: Yes, but I’m from Taiwan, not the mainland.A2: Yes, Republic of China, not PR China.A3: Yes, but we are seeking for independence.See, you can make your point while respecting the fact.
Throw this question to someone from PRC, the likely answer is Yes.  That's  what the education system over there been teaching all these years.Having lived and worked in China (well, the Mainland part of it) for almost 2 decades, I have been asked about my views on Chinese from HK, Taiwan, Singapore, other Southeast Asian countries, Australia/US/Canada/UK (or basically the Western countries).  It seems to be there is only a one-dimensional perspective of what constitutes Chinese being taught or communicated in China: i.e. if you are ethnically Chinese, you are Chinese.  And being labeled or perceived as Chinese, you are obliged to love and support PRC and its people, you cannot say anything bad that will harm your "motherland" and your "fellow" Chinese.  Otherwise you will be branded as a traitor.  If someone looks Chinese and being ethnically Chinese but do not like Chinese culture or have no knowledge of the culture, the habits, the customs, or not able to utter a few phrases in Chinese, it's almost seen as a disgrace by many (ok, those with such extreme views are more likely to come from lower socio-economic background or received very limited educations).Take for example, the former US Ambassador to China Gary Locke, who is ethnically Chinese.  He must have suffered quite a bit with the attention he got in China that had gone beyond focusing on his duty and role as US Ambassador.  Many felt close to him because he is Chinese (ethnically speaking), and many felt betrayed and hurt when he toed the lines in favor of the country he represents (and being citizen of as well as culturally grew up in). Same goes for many PRC friend's comments about Singapore's founding father Lee Kuan Yew, which goes something like this: how could he being a Chinese went against Chinese in his early days, he even closed the Chinese language Nanyang University.  Forgetting that its Singapore as a nation Lee swore his legion to.  And quite often you would hear questions like why don't overseas Chinese love the motherland?If one looks at the concept of "Chinese" closely, there are in fact many facets or dimensions:(1) National-identity(2) Ethnic-identity(3) Cultural-identity(4) Language-identityIn the case of Taiwan, if one compare a typical Taiwanese on the four dimensions above, Ethnic-identity (as long as they are not aboriginal Formosa) is there, language-wise Taiwan has taken a slight diversion in certain expressions and accent (just like English terms in the US and UK or Australia are somewhat different but they would have no problem understanding each other) while Taiwan sticks to traditional Chinese writing rather than the simplified Chinese used on the Mainland. Culturally is certainly very different given different cultural developments, experience in life, and history (just like Anglo-Saxon from US would be different from those of their ancestors from UK).  Nationality would be a debatable issue given the tricky political situation between ROC and PRC.  All in all, it would all depends on the context and situation, whether they should or would call themselves Chinese or Taiwanese.  Same case applies to those from HK (and there are a lot of ethnic Indians in HK as well).So, why puzzle over Chinese from Taiwan calling themselves Taiwanese? 
Back in the early 19th century, when German nationalism came up first, the country was divided into about a hundred independent monarchies and a few independent towns, some of sustainable size, like Prussia, Bavaria and Austria, but others about the size of a smalltown with a few surrounding villages. The states making up Germany were regularly invaded by neighbours, especially by France (which became a strong central state after the 100 year war). The last invasion, which broke thecamel’s back, was the one by Napoleon. A movement of German nationalists wanted to unite Germany under a constitutional monarch (they preferred Prussia, as, there, as anreaction on the defeat by Napoleon, the government under Freiherr von Stein had enacted serious reforms, limiting the power ofthe aristocrats, who were mainly seen to have been responsible for the military defeat).There was something like “German culture”, often romanticised, but in fact the cultures of a Frisian coastal fisherman and a Bavarian Alpine cattle farmer were very different. The one uniting thing was the language. So the nationalists wanted to unite ALL regions, where a dialect of German was spoken under this new constitutional monarchy led by Prussia (there were also a few radical republicans, who wanted to get rid of the monarchy completely).This is what sets the borders in the first (not officially used anymore) stanza of the Deutschlandlied: “Von der Maas bis and die Memel, von der Etsch bis an den Belt”. These claims would make Germany reach from well inside France, Belgium and the Netherlands into what is today Lithuania, and from northern Italy well into Denmark.Their claims also made no provisions for ethnic minorities, e.g. Poles and Kashubes in East Prussia, even in places where German speakers were the minority. They had to germanise or leave.Now there were quite a few German speaking regions, where the people DID NOT want to join a united Germany under Prussia: E.g. Austria, the German speaking part of Switzerland and the German speakers of Alsace-Lorraine in France. They were quite happy being German speaking Austrians, Swiss or French, even though they share some cultural identity with the Germans in Germany, and attempts to get them into ermany by force were resisted. The German Empire, of course, had strategic reasons why e.g. the German speaking, highly industrialised region of the Lorraine in France should become German, who wouldn’t like to get a whole lot of coal mines and steel mills (I’m talking about the 19th century). Or taking the Alsace would provide a handy strategic buffer zone in case of a war with France (Similar to the First Island Chain and the South China Sea issue today). The locals were not asked what they wanted. In fact, in France they had a lot more freedoms than under a German monarchy, so they wanted to stay French.The discussion over who is Chinese reminds me of this.My ex-girlfriend for 15 years was Filipina-Chinese, by ancestry ethnic Chinese, but she did not speak any Chinese language and considered herself to be Filipina (though her face looked very Chinese, compared to the Filipinos of Malayan descent, and e.g. when we were travelling through Hong Kong, she was often adressed in Cantonese).The woman I currently have a relationship with (a long story, we met in highschool 35 years ago, became highschool sweethearts, then lost each other when she went to the US for college and 25 years later met again), is ethnically half Chinese, half German and embraces her maternal Chinese roots and culture much more than the one from her paternal German side. But she does not consider herself to be a citizen of the PRC. Her mother comes from one of the Han families, which settled in Taiwan 500 years ago. The family and its mainland branch, had suffered under the Japanese, the Communists (the mainland branch, though the mother barely escaped from Shanghai in 1949, where she was sent as a teenager to attend a boarding school), and the KMT (during the White Terror Period).They see themselves as Taiwanese, with a Chinese culture, but definitely distinct from Mainland China. The KMT, who took over post 1949, are considered foreign invaders.As for the Japanese, while they carried out some crimes in Taiwan (mainly during the intitial phase of their occupation in the later 19th century), they were also responsible for setting up the base of the industrial infrastructure, which post WW2 made Taiwan wealthy. During the later stages of their occupation they also gave the locals limited selfrule, so the experiences the Taiwanese had with the Japanese are quite different from what Mainland China had.These ultra-nationalistic post I read again and again here from Mainland Chinese remind me of a similar period in Germany, e.g. Lorraine is ours. If the locals don’t like it, they can f*ck off to France, but the land, the mines and the factories belong to us Germans.
Cultural and legal aspects of being chinese. Cultural: You are a Chinese descendant (most probably). Remember Taiwan was once "legal" property of Mainland China yet that in Taiwan there a different people living from different places from Asia and, Formosa was conquered and invaded by different other empires/countries like England, so you could have Indonesian, Vietnamese, Japanese,  Chinese, Korean or Malaysian traits. Knowing the Asian Pacific culture your parents should know well your traditional history if they are from there. Legal:  Now, if you are a european/american/middle east looking like person and you were born from foreign parents in Taiwan, that does not makes you Taiwanese for the Taiwan Law concerning citizenship grants it only by jus sanguini. Meaning that you have to be born of Taiwanese father. You could be granted the taiwanese citizenship if there is no known whereabouts of your parents and you were abandoned inside taiwanese territory. 