
This system you are referring to, at least in the PRC’s perspective, is known as:一國兩制 (One country; two systems)Though currently, Taiwan desires to be recognized as an independent nation whose previously controlled landmass was lost to the communist party.As far as I know, the constitution still recognizes so. There were attempts to adjust their constitution to make their claimed territories to reflect what they actually control, but never quite came through.To understand why and how all of this came to be, you must dive into a little bit of China’s history first.The two important points of history are:Xinhai Revolution - WikipediaChinese Civil War - WikipediaAs of right now, the entirety of China is ruled by two different parties: The Republic of China (ROC) and the People's Republic of China (PRC).In all political technicalities, these two governments are still at war with each other, with the PRC controlling the entirety of the mainland, and the ROC only in control of the island of Taiwan, and several nearby smaller islands, such as 金門 (Kinman), 馬祖 (Matsu), and 澎湖 (Penghu), which were the only territories the ROC was able to retain after their retreat to Taiwan on 1949.The ROC remained part of the UN, and a member of the permanent 5 until 1971, where the PRC was instead voted to be the true government of China.On 1992, in a meeting between the two political parties, it was 'agreed' upon that the ROC will be the legitimate ruler of Taiwan and the islands they were able to retain, as long as it is agreed upon that there is only one China. This became what we know as the 1992 consensus today.You may be thinking: So why does PRC not just invade Taiwan and take the land back?Mainland China has gone through a lot these past few decades, such as:Great Chinese Famine - WikipediaMainland China has been busy playing catch-up economically, and did not really pick up until the past two decades.War is expensive, and the leaders of the PRC know that. They are smart businessmen and leaders that are attempting to resolve this old, old civil war with the greatest benefits for both sides. It is most beneficial to have a healthy province, not a ruined one.The only thing that will drive the PRC to opt for an invasion is if enough nations (highly unlikely), or Taiwan itself, declares Taiwanese independence.A lot is at stake here. Should the PRC allow Taiwan to go independent, other provinces may want to follow suit, especially Xingjiang, and potentially, Tibet. Likewise Hong Kong and Macau.I would also like to use this opportunity to voice some thoughts and concerns over this topic, so here comes the opinion part of my answer.So what is going to happen?Only time will tell. Even though I am deeply entrenched within Taiwan and its culture, I hope for a peaceful reuinification. My reasoning is that Chinese culture is one-of-a-kind, and I hope every aspect of it will be preserved; to do that, China, as a whole, will need all the help it can get; to finally clear up the bad blood between the two parties, band together and help each other, and finally not treat their recent history as some sort of a taboo. But the time for reunification is not quite there yet, especially with the existing form of governance in mainland, which is not particularly enticing to the Taiwanese.There is also another problem.In cyberspace, the relationship is ludicrously toxic between the two sides. Imagine the community of League of Legends, and now multiply that by a myriad (exactly ten thousand) shotguns that shoot exploding swords. Frightening to go against, but guiltily indulging to behold from afar.And the reason for them to be a complete douche to each other is always the same, “They started it!” argument, like a bunch of preschoolers.The level of immaturity is asinine. I am glad that none of them are in charge of politics.Edit: Then again, after reviewing some recent events, I am going say that neither sides’ governments are very mature, either.And here is an unpopular opinion:I found this on the internet, which is a flag used by a tea place to represent Taiwan, though I find it very aesthetically, and historically, pleasing. It is perfect as a reunited national flag.Now, I know for a fact that quite a few people on Quora will crucify me for recommending this flag, and will likely downvote me to hell or leave angry comments telling me that I am completely ignorant of China’s politics and history (though admittedly, I do have lots to learn), or that Taiwan is insignificant, and the communist party is the great, big winner of the conflict that crushed the puny and weak ROC.And yes, I am aware of this joke:I think anyone can get the joke without the text.But hear me out, if anyone is willing.The Chinese are a united people that seek opportunities and a better future, but will still keep their own history fresh in their minds. They are people of progress and tradition. They respect the past and work hard for the future.Even though ROC’s flag has largely lost its original sentiment, their contributions and influence in Chinese history is undeniable. They overthrew the last, weakest, and most corrupt dynasty of China, in hopes to pave way for a better tomorrow.The PRC still holds memorials for Sun Yat-sen today. This whole thing is not about ‘me big and strong, me smash the weak!’, this is about remembering and learning from the past.Forget national loyalty, what is required is cultural loyalty.Either way, in the end, the decision should be for the people, by the people.And that concludes my two cents. Debates and criticism that I can learn from are absolutely welcome.General toxic comments and insults: Not so welcome.Update: Some adjustments were made based on the inputs I have been receiving.
It’s pretty simple at the end of WW2 China & USA defeated Japan, but then a Civic war broke out between the communist CCP (Communist Party of China) and KMT (Kuo-min-tang , founded by SUN Yat-sen, acknowledged as father of modern post imperial China by both CCP and KMT) and KMT lost and had to retreat to Taiwan in 1949. Ever since then both basically agree there is only one China but it is governed independently by two political parties. CPC controls mainland China and is called PRC (People’s Republic of China), and KMT controls Taiwan and is called ROC (Republic of China).Since KMT was actually in control of entire China at the end of WW2, Taiwan actually held the seat in the UN from 1945–1971. China was one of the charter members of the United Nations and is one of five permanent members of its Security Council. I never understood why CKS ( Chiang Kai-shek) gave up the UN seat in 1971 it was a very dumb move…It’s amazing China never really tried to take Taiwan by force. But it was probably because China used up lot of resources for WW2 and it was just trying to take care of itself internally first. Then the crazy cultural revolution happened and also famine. Tens (or more) of millions of people died. China was closed to the western world until the 80’s when the decided to go with economic reform… and the rest is history. They’ve adopted many capitalistic ways and although communism is still at the core and no second political party is allowed yet I think it eventually will happen. Once people taste freedom they will want more… so it is just matter of time.Taiwan people is split on unification with China and some are trying to declare independence. KMT ruled Taiwan with ironfist from 1949–1980’s and then the educated young people started to want more freedom. Finally in 1986 a second political party was formed in Taiwan called DPP (Democratic Progressive Party). Majority of DPP folks wants independence from China. Personally I’m for unification… simply because either China nor USA will allow Taiwan independence anyway. If China will allow people to choose their own political party - ie, let KMT and DPP form in China then personally I don’t mind unification…
To follow up on Joseph Boyle’s answer, the hand on the right of the image you linked to has the flag of the Republic of China. The hand on the left has the flag of the People’s Republic of China.By convention, the Republic of China is often referred to as “Taiwan,” (*) and the People’s Republic of China is simply referred to as “China.” Since the Republic of China is a separate entity from the People’s Republic of China, and Taiwan is a part of the Republic of China, it has its own government and passports separate from “China” (i.e. the People’s Republic of).(*) Technically, the Republic of China consists of more than just Taiwan (and Penghu). It controls a very, very small portion of mainland China: the islands of Kinmen and Matsu. It also controls the largest of the disputed Spratly Islands in the South China Sea: Taiping Island. Of course, Taiwan is geographically the largest and most populous of these islands, hence the convention of referring to the Republic of China as “Taiwan.”
There is only ONE CHINA. Both PRC and ROC generally accepted this.When they have to travel to other countries (US, UK..etc), citizens of either side use their own passports.When they have to travel across the straits to visit the other side, they use permits (not passports) as neither side recognises the other’s sovereignty. Both sides consider there is only one China on which both sides claim sovereignty.For your information, it works the same for Hong Kong (and Macau). We go to Mainland China with return permits (as if we are returning home) and Mainland Chinese visit Hong Kong with entry permits too. The same before 1997 and after.
“Taiwan being a part of China” is mostly true in terms of culture, language and race, but not the current political system. It’s the result of a bitter civil war 65 years ago.Taiwanese government is currently willing to recognize mainland government as legit in mainland. but mainland government doesn’t want to recognize Taiwanese government as legit in Taiwan. Mainland government is still trying to unite (i.e., take over) Taiwan. Therefore, maintaining the “war status” to threaten a war if Taiwan wants to be an independent country.