
Yes and no.The question is really hard to answer because the terms Taiwan and country are somewhat ambiguous. I will break it up and explain it with the best effort I can make. I try to stay neutral and give more facts than opinions. Hopefully, for outsiders you will have a better understanding of what’s going on, and for both Mainland Chinese and Taiwanese, you may get something have been missed in our past online arguments.First question: What on earth is Taiwan?It can mean differently in different context, it can be one of the following:A geographic region, the Taiwan island.An administrative region. Usually refered to as Taiwan province. Taiwan province was established in the year 1885 under Qing Dynasty. Before that it was a part of Fujian province. After the WWII, Taiwan was returned to the ROC and remained a province of ROC till today. Now ROC free area(Free area of the Republic of China) consisits of two provinces, Taiwan province and Fujian province(Fujian Province, Republic of China).A political entity. It’s official name is ROC, Republic of China. It used to rule over almost whole China right after WWII. But after a civil war with CCP, ROC, or KMT at that time, retreated to Taiwan island and some small island in Fujian Province. Because large part of it’s free territory is under Taiwan province, they are now often called Taiwan.A geographic region: the free area of ROC(Free area of the Republic of China), sometimes called TPKM, aka Taiwan-Penghu-Kinmen-Matsu Area.Second question: What is a country?A country is a region that is identified as a distinct national entity in political geography. A country may be an independent sovereign state or one that is occupied by another state, as a non-sovereign or formerly sovereign political division, or a geographic region associated with sets of previously independent or differently associated people with distinct political characteristics.But sometimes, we also use the term country to refer to a sovereign state only. Because each goverment establish its own deplomatic relation with what they recongnize as a country, there is no universal agreement on the number of "countries" in the world.Third question: Was Taiwan historically part of China?Historically, Taiwan was not formally part of China until Ming Dynasty. There was troops sent to Taiwan like some expedition activity as early as Eastern Han Dynasty, but no goverment established so it was not part of China then. At that time Taiwan was refered to as Yizhou, 夷州.During the early Ming Dynasty, Taiwan and the surronding islands was occupied by mostly pirates from Chinese, Japan, and some western countries. Netherlanders established a colonist in Taiwan in 1624.After the Ming Dynasty was overthrown by Qing. Zheng Chenggong retreated and occupied Taiwan in the year 1661, expeled the Dutch colonists and established it’s own regime. This period is often called Kingdom of Tungning. Technically speaking, Zheng Chenggong regard hinself as an official of Ming Dynasty, so it is also called 明郑时期(Ming Dynasty under Zheng regime) in Chinese.The Tunning Kingdom ended with a naval invasion of Qing. Qing established local goverment affliated to the Fujian province.Fourth question: In what sense can Taiwan be recognized as a country?Among four explanations of the word Taiwan, most of us agree that for the first and second explanation, Taiwan cannot be independent. But there is still disagreement, how come?Taiwan has its own local ethnic group, they had been settled there long before Zheng conquered Taiwan. So if we dates back to 300 years ago, Taiwan used to be independent, as an island. But that doesn’t make much sense to me. There is no exile goverment for local Taiwanese now. And if Taiwan go independent in this sense, how should we deal with Kinmen and Matsu, aka, the Fujian province in free area?The most tricky part is: Is Taiwan independent in the name of ROC?This is not a unique case, there are many countries seperated from each other for civil war. Some went indepent from each other, some reunioned after long seperation, some still in civil war. Technically, there is no consensus how we call two goverments established with in one country. This can be compared to the American Civil war. Think about this: Is Confederate States of America a country? Or was it a country?There are other comparable examples: West and East German, North and South Korea. A little different is that the two Koreas signed peace treaty to cease the civil war. But there is no such treaty so technically, The PRC and ROC is still at war.Since the word country can mean either all states and sovereign states only, it’s upon you to decide what the current situation should be called. Some times we say Taiwan is de facto independent but not de jure independent. I won’t make a judgement here.Fifth question: What progress have been made on this issue?In 1992, both parties set a talk and reached the 1992 Consensu. It stated that both PRC and ROC agreed there is only one China. Known as the 一个中国原则 in Chinese.In ROC’s words, it is narrated as 一中各表(One China, different interpretation). That is to say they regard one China as Republic of China, While the Mainland regard it as People’s Republic of China. There is dispute, but the consensus is there is only one China instead of two.In PRC’s words,they didn’t say about 一中各表(One China, different interpretation). It is known as 一中不表(One China, no interpretation). Since there is a dispute on what one China means, we just leave it here and don’t talk about it further. So the statement goes like there is only one China, full stop.Sixth question: What do Taiwanese think about Taiwan independent movement?Some pro-independent youth are very hostile to mainlanders, some think we should remain the status quo, some are just not sensitive to politics. There are also pro-reunification youth, mostly they are descendants of KMT officials.Seventh question: What do mainlanders think about Taiwan independent movement?Some mainlanders are very sensitive to this question, they regards Taiwan as a province of PRC and support armed reunification. Most of Mainlanders regard one country, two system policy as a feasible arrangement. Some think we should remain the stataus quo, but majority of mainlanders support economical blockade to make Taiwan surrender. There are several survey on this but since they are in Chinese, I won’t post it here. Search on Baidu/Google you will get a lot.Final question: What do I think about Taiwan independent movement?At the end of my answer, I want to give my personal opinion.I think the best scenario is remain the status quo now. As we can see, Taiwan has changed a lot in the past 70 years. So has the Mainland. So we know a lot can happen in the future. Democracy? Not totally impossible for PRC. By then the question may be easier to solve.I’m totally against using military force to reunite Taiwan unless the goverment declare de jure independence. Economic embargo? Though not a good idea but still acceptable. If Tsai Ing-wen keep on humiliating the Mainland, I don’t think it’s a big deal. It’s just what it used to be before 1992.That’s all. Thanks for reading this answer. All corrections and criticisms are welcomed, as long as you don’t attack me personally.
The question is ambiguous. To answer it, first we have to define “Taiwan” and “country”. However, I decide to leave that for other people.I would like to answer this question as an individual born and lived in Taiwan.The word “Taiwan” is not officially included in any country’s name. However, the government of a country named “Republic of China” (ROC) happens to rule an island called “Taiwan”.Since ROC controls only Taiwan and some smaller islands, people live inside and outside of the country start calling this country “Taiwan”. When people say “Taiwan”, in most of the case they refer to the country Republic of China, not only the island Taiwan.Then the question becomes: “Is Republic of China a country?”.Some might argue that ROC is not a country, because it is not a member of the United Nations or any other reasons. Whether ROC is a country or not, the bottom line is that right now Taiwan is not controlled by People's Republic of China.
Quotes from TIME: "according to one local poll(Ratio identifying as Taiwanese highest in 20 years: poll), most people identify as Taiwanese and either want to maintain the status quo on a permanent basis or to have independence." Let me emphasize this point.Usually we refer Taiwan adiministration as the "Government of Taiwan"(Taiwan.gov.tw) which includes a directly-elected president by people and five branches of government (Taiwan's System of Government), the Executive Yuan (similar to Executive Branch in US Goverment and the State Council of China), the Legislative Yuan (similar to Congress of US and the National People's Congress of China), the Judicial Yuan (similar to the Supreme Court of US and the Supreme People's Court and the Supreme People's Procuratorate of China), the Examination Yuan in charge of the employment and retirement of civil servants, the Control Yuan to monitor public officials and in charge of investigations of complaints against public officials. The word "Yuan" corresponds to the pronounciation of the character 院, denoted by ㄩㄢˋ in the representation of pronounciation used by everyone born and educated in Taiwan(https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bo...).@Scott Wu I think in your mind, there has been a "belief" and it's definitely not a neutral answer "Yes and No". You say that you try to give "facts" not "opnions" maybe simply to try to make your incomplete and ancient views of Taiwan more persuasive. If you have talked to one or two professors in Beijing University in your country, I think they will say your information is incomplete. Why would I say that? Just let me take some of "many carelessly ignored facts" as examples.In the First Question, 2. administrative region, you "carelessly ignored" the historical truth after 1885, says by silence that there are almost no changes in the period of 1885~1945, directly connects these two totally different historical dots together, insisted the wrong administration throughout the whole paragraph, and caused a totally biased opinion under the evil mask of your injection of thought in those starting words of "neutral" and "facts". Just let me add some more history facts that you might "carelessly" forget to write.In 1895 when First Sino-Japanese War ended, Qing empire lost the war and signed the treaty of Shimonoseki to recognized the total independence of Korea and ceded Taiwan and Penghu Islands to Japan "in perpetuity". (First Sino-Japanese War - Wikipedia). Here is the translation of the treaty (Treaty of Shimonoseki), wiki of the treaty (Treaty of Shimonoseki - Wikipedia). After that, Taiwan became under the rule of Japan until 1945 (Taiwan under Japanese rule - Wikipedia).In 1945, Japan surrendered in World War II and gave up Taiwan. At that time, the ROC government (run by KMT party at that time) started to take over Taiwan. But we often call it "KMT government" in Taiwan to distinguish the difference between the situations before and after 1987 after which Taiwan martial law is lifted and political parties other than KMT can be established legally. I will cover that later.You may wonder what is the difference between KMT government and China government right now at the time of 1945. It can start from where KMT goverment and CPC(Communist Party of China, China government right now) appeared.Recall that, in 1901, Taiwan is under the rule of Japan. Taiwan was a small island not in business with China or KMT at that time. However, in China the area, Xinhai revolution overthrew Qing dynasty. In 1912, KMT was established in Beijing and held the majority of seats at that time. In 1921, CPC was established (Communist Party of China - Wikipedia), but the authority of China at that time is primarily KMT. All those things happened in China the area, not on Taiwan. Later in 1945, world war 2 ended, KMT took over Taiwan. That is what happened in the period of 1901-1945. But following the end of world war 2, Chinese civil war exploded between CPC and KMT, due to the exhaustion of KMT in world war 2, CPC gained victories on the way from north to south and in 1949, KMT retreated back to Taiwan and US goverment gave enormous aid to KMT, and then KMT survived in Taiwan.However, the KMT government at that time was recognized as a foreign government, not the Taiwan government right now. Why is that? Let's go back to the view of Taiwanese.After 1895, Japan ran Taiwan as a colony. It has many unequal laws and treatments toward Taiwanese. But different in other colonies of western countries, Japan also had some reforms in Taiwan on aspects like education, health, architectures, art, etc. In 1945, KMT took over Taiwan. However, due to the culture differences and misunderstandings of languages between Taiwanese and KMT soldiers and police officers who came from China the area, many conflicts happened throughout Taiwan. At that time, KMT is in Chinese civil war with CPC so KMT took a high-pressure principle to suppress Taiwanese people. Taiwanese kept accumulated their anger toward the KMT government. In February 27, 1947, in an arrest of claimed smuggled cigarettes by KMT police officers, a police officer triggered his gun and killed an innocent woman who is in the crowd who were watching what happened. This news is spreaded by radio immediately and an anti-government uprising occured everywhere in Taiwan. In February 28, 1947, one day after that, KMT sent troops from mainland China to suppress this uprising in Taiwan. However, many highly-educated people and innocent people were killed. Estimates of the number of deaths vary from 10,000 to 30,000 or more. (February 28 Incident - Wikipedia). After that, KMT has kept a high-pressure principle on people. People today described that period as "White Terror" (White Terror (Taiwan) - Wikipedia) to mean the terrors of police officers and the KMT government. In that period, people would be arrested simply due to some words spoken. Some of them are even professors in universities or senators. For example, Chen Wen-chen is an assistant professor of mathematics at Carnegie Mellon University. On 2 July 1981 (aged 31), after the conclusion of his third year of teaching, he returned to his native Taiwan for a vacation. Members of Taiwan's secret police, the Garrison Command, detained and interrogated him for twelve hours on 2 July 1981, and his body was found on the campus of National Taiwan University the next day (Chen Wen-chen - Wikipedia). This "white terror" period was under the rule of Chiang_Kai-shek (Chiang Kai-shek - Wikipedia). The matial law gave the government the legal power to do so(Martial law - Wikipedia). Chiang_Kai-shek has the hope throughout his life to fight back CPC to gain back the mainland China. Therefore, in that period, the policies of KMT government will insist "One China" principle simply due to the chase of power and victory by Chiang_Kai-shek and some soldiers. But in the eye of people born in Taiwan, living in Taiwan, those are empty.This situation has been changed after the power to rule was transfered to his son Chiang_Ching-kuo (Chiang Ching-kuo - Wikipedia). Under the rule of Chiang_Ching-kuo, many policies favors people with low income and low power. In 1986, DPP(Democratic Progressive Party, the party of the president of Taiwan right now) was established in Taipei. At that time, establishment of political party was illegal. The only one legal party was KMT. One year after the establishment of DPP, Chiang_Ching-kuo lifted the martial law(Martial law - Wikipedia), removed inhuman restrications, and made the establishment of political parties legal, indirectly admitting the legality of DPP. After the death of Chiang_Ching-kuo, the power was transfered to Lee_Teng-hui (Lee Teng-hui - Wikipedia). Lee_Teng-hui has made huge progress on the democracy of Taiwan. He removed the law saying that the members of the congress cannot be replaced which is to ensuer the power of Chiang_Kai-shek in early ages. In 1996, Lee_Teng-hui abandoned the power to rule permanently, changed the law, and made the president of Taiwan directly elected by people. Since then, there has already been 4 directly-elected presidents of Taiwan.Before 1998, ROC government has "province" as local governments and there are two provinces Fujian province and Taiwan province. However, Fujian province has only 3 small islands and the duty of Taiwan province government are nearly the same as the executive branch of the central government. But every year, a large amount of money is spent to maintain the work of these two province governments, yet nearly everything is done by the executive branch of the central government. The reason why the province government remains is just due to the hope of Chiang Kai-shek and other soldiers close to Chiang Kai-shek to take back China, so the level of government remain the same as the level of government in the time when KMT ruled the whole China the area. In 1998, the law of Taiwan was changed and "Province" is no longer a local government. Before 1998, the level of government of Taiwan is "central government" -> "province government" -> "county government". After 1998, the level of government of Taiwan is "central government" -> "county government". Although some non-Taiwanese may intend to emphasize "the province", actually in Taiwan, no one will notice the historical existence of "province" because we elect our president and leaders of counties, we go to the "county government" building to apply for something, to ask for something. We have our central government and our county governments, that is so simple, no so-called "province" right now.The first time I heard the word "province" is from people who said a similar language as Taiwanese, but not a Taiwanese.You may wonder whether Taiwan wanted to be independent. I think the poll has said everything. Like lots of teenagers say "we want to be ourselves". This is based on the historical facts of Taiwan. I was lucky to listen to a speech by Lee_Teng-hui face-to-face and listened to his research toward the history of Taiwan. Througthout the history of Taiwan, there has never been a moment that Taiwan is not suppressed by foreign authorities. In 400 years ago, Dutch and Spain ruled Taiwan as a colony. People worked hard but all tears and sweat are for other people. Then Koxinga, a pirate and a businessman, expeled Dutch and took resources of Taiwan to sell in other countries. (History of Taiwan - Wikipedia). In the era of Ming dynasty and Qing dynasty, they took Taiwan as outer fringes of civilization. Their principle to rule Taiwan was to ensure there were no uprising in Taiwan and took Taiwan as a geographic defense on the sea. In the age of Japan, Taiwanese were forced to believe the religon of Japanese. The price of crops were defined by the government and every crops could only be sold to the government, lots of farmers cannot get what they pay. The education of Japanese children and Taiwanese were seperated in different schools. Some folk cultures of Taiwan like glove puppetry(Glove puppetry - Wikipedia) was prohibited. Many inhuman restrictions are enforced in Taiwan. In KMT government, the white terror and the martial law also suppressed Taiwanese people. Therefore, Taiwanese simply want to be our own. With this history, we know those foreign leadership does not care about Taiwanese at all. They only cared about themself, their momey, or their ambitions. They enforced Taiwanese to have the same dreams as them, but punished Taiwanese to have our own dream, fight for our own dreams and punished Taiwanese to be Taiwanese in Taiwan.Now we can elect our own president and have our own democracy. We cherish that and feel thankful for that. Yet, in some places, missles are aimed at Taiwan to threaten us. How does Taiwanese feel about this? Look at this. Suppose a boy likes a girl who has a boyfriend and, unfortunately, this girl has never wanted to even be a friend of the boy. One day, the boy find some clues to imply that this girl dislikes him. Then he decides to go up to her. He rushes to her and puts a gun against her head asking the girl "Are you my boyfriend ?". If you were the girl, what would you say? I don't know, but I am sure about this "you have a boyfriend", right?Thank you for your reading.Andy
DISCLAIMER: This question got edited, it was originally asking “Is Taiwan A County” now instead of “County” it says “Country”.So, Taiwan (Republic of China) claims YES, while Mainland China (People’s Republic of China) claims NO. At the same time PRC has practically zero jurisdiction within the territory of ROC. As for the resto f the International community, minority openly recognizes Taiwan as independent and has official dyplomatic ties, while majority pretends to recognize Taiwan as not independent from PRC, and instead as a rebel province. And the keyword is “pretend” because Taiwan controls some 90% of world semiconductor market, plenty of Electronics markets, and is relevant economic partner in various other sectors, the GDP is among highest in Asia, and Taiwan is among Asian Tigers. So internationally everybody is interested in doing business with Taiwan, not only with China, and they do. WHen they do, they obviously cannot do any of that business through any Chinese (PRC) authorities, because those have absolutely no Jurisdiction, so they always do business directly, and as far as talking diplomacy, well, countries do have diplomatic outposts in Taiwan that provide diplomatic and consular service to its citizens but these are always unofficial, meaning, the name never consists of words like “embassy” or “consulate”, they do not use any of the symbols that are reserved for official diplomatic use, and they insist that they are just some sort of Cultural and Economic Trade Offices. In fact they do what embassies and consulates do. They reason they pretend, is because PRC is a big bully and requires anyone who wants to have diplomatic ties with it not to have such ties with Taiwan. And since China market is big and everyone want’s to get a piece of the pie, they just pretend so that they can both have their cake and eat it.So while EU or US do not recognize Taiwan’s independence officially, they do in practice treat each citizens differently. A Taiwanese passport gets you far greater access to travel internationally than Chinese passport does. Taiwanese passport holders can go to US without visa. PRC passport holders cannot. So that’s how it is, not independent, but with a passport policy like if it was. Same the other way. Visa or visa waiver to China is a totally separate story from visa to Taiwan. China claims Taiwan, yet has no power over their territory, PRC passport has no power in Taiwan, and vice-versa. Sure, same story is with Hong Kong, they also have their own passports separate from PRC passports, but now PRC has a real and actual jurisdiction in HK and over it’s territory. This is not true with regards to Taiwan.——Below is the answer that I made before the question was edited and and asked “Is Taiwan a County”.No it is not. Nobody makes such a claim. Not Taiwan (ROC), nor China Mainland (PRC).The Republic of China (ROC) was a legal government of the entire CHina, with Capital in Nanjing, until Communists in a domestic war took over, and pushed ROC government off and to Taiwan island. So ROC was chronologically in place, ruling genuinely, before PRC emerged. Then for some time after ROC was pushed to Taiwan, they still claimed the entire China where Taiwan was reffered to as Taiwan Province “省” and not County “縣”. It was even still claimed that ROC capital remained in PRC occupied Nanjing quite some time after. Eventually ROC let go this approach. Now ROC subdivides its territory into Counties, whereas not only a Taiwan main island, but also Kinmen, Matsu, Pescadores, Green Island, Orchid Island, Xiao liuqiu, and some archipelagos that are disputed between many nations in the area as well. China PRC on the other hand, subdivides its land into Provinces. Thus, has never claimed Taiwan as a County either.Now, I think, this question was originally supposed to challenge the status quo, but the choice of word “County” was not accurate. And as for the status quo, well, PRC has own claims that are not in line with those of ROC. PRC is bigger (a big bully really), ROC is smaller. But to be honest, if you want an opinion of your own, easy, just visit Taiwan. You will learn that PRC has no jurisdiction there whatsoever. And outside of that both sides still do and will continue to have their own claims each.But chronologically there was ROC first. Communists by force pushed the then-legal government away to Taiwan island. They were both fighting each other since. Just that eventually the regular war tactics shifted into political and economic tensions. The two sides never signed war end treaty, so they actually remain in the state of ware since. Thus, from each of the perspectives respectively, they both see themselves justified. ROC was first, but PRC grew bigger. And the rest of the world goes by politics, which have never been a clean game. And the world has changed their stance on the problem as well. ROC was initially recognized as the legal representative of the entire CHina even after it was pushed away to Taiwan island. ROC represented the entire Chine in the UN. Then ROC got kicked out of UN. Now most countries do not have diplomatic ties with Taiwan officially. But actually still do, just don’t admit it. Instead of Embassy of X country, they have an X Cultural and Economic Office in Taipei, which pretends not to be any representative of a government of X. And making business with both PRC and ROC. It’s a game like that. But again, just go to Taiwan, and you will be left with no doubts. Perhaps at some point PRC will force ROC to give up and will retake control over the Taiwan island, time will show, the two governments has been at war on idle. But as for now, they jurisdiction of PRC in the territiory of ROC is none.
No, Taiwan is not a country.Or it is in the grey-zone in the definition of a country. As it is an independent and functioning political- economy.Since 1972, when the United Nations changed the China seat from Taiwan, the Republic of China to China, the People’s Republic of China. The free China and Red Cbina have been engaged in “dollar diplomacy” offering loans or humanitarian aide in exchange for diplomatic recognition as CHINA.After 1992, that was the end for Taiwan, as the CHINA, as South Korea rapproached with Beijing as China as that has greatly enriched that Korea. Now Taiwan is recognized by 22 or 23 minor nations as China.In 2000 with Taiwan’s election of the DPP’s Chen Shui Bin as president, effectively ended Taiwan’s claim as the China as the Democratic Progressive Party’s position is for Taiwan as an independent state and not as China.The Mainland still tries to knock Taiwan into oblivian— by giving low cost loans or other financial incentives as the PRC positions itself for its global conquest: Zimbabwe is making the Chinese yuan one of its legal currencies. Taiwan does not have any seat (representation) at the United Nations and other global institutions.xxxxxAccording to Red Capitalist Jack Ma’s Mainland-banned South China Morning Post: the HK-English newspaper 2016 May 21 describes Taiwan: Even though Taiwan is self-governed after splitting with the mainland in 1949 following a civil war, Beijing still sees the island as part of its territory to be reunified. Taiwan's ex-president Ma Ying-jeou faces lawsuits as immunity endsBiding Time: The Challenge of Taiwan's International Status ...http://www.brookings.edu/.../17-...Brookings InstitutionNov 10, 2011 - The government in Taipei, which formerly represented China in the United ... that no country could recognize the ROC and the PRC at the same time, ... claim to sovereignty,[1] Taiwan engaged in so-called “dollar diplomacy,” ...Dollar Diplomacy Can Be Healthy For China