
Should or not is inessential, you need to let National People’s Congress of PRC abolish <Anti-Secession Law>.People constantly asking about Taiwan, like they really care.Then appear have 0 understanding about the issue, which makes people highly doubt their intention of asking. Hardly can find a metaphor worse than this “GB and US”. It is even more accurate if you use the territory change in Seven Years War for analogy!Anyway, it’s Quora.Just please do some basic reading, (Cant stop the stronger feeling many such questions are trolling).They are history ABC and darn open files! Chinese Civil War (1946– ), 3 Joint Communiques (PRC-US), Taiwan Relations Act (US-ROC), ASL (PRC criterion since 2005).Since PRC’s ASL, among all side, is the the only one stipulate mandatory action, I shall make a brief introduction here.Anti-Secession Law is proposed on the 3rd conference of the 10th National People’s Congress, ratified by the vote on March 14, 2005, went into effect immediately, Presidential Decree No.34 in 2005, promulgated the law at the same day.The Article 8 makes it very clear that The State shall use non-peaceful and all necessary means once any these alternative conditions happen:1) Once if any "Taiwan independence" forces, under whatever name and method, accomplish the fact of Taiwan's separation from China;2) or if a significant event occurs, which would determinately lead to Taiwan's separation from China;3) or if all possibility of peaceful unification is lost.I admit the law is a bit controversy, because lack clear interpretation to condition 3). Doves think it authorize unlimited power to State to launch assault anytime, while Hawks believe it is for stall the final decision as long as possible.But this controverse is nothing about OP question. Once anyone have searched and read the law, (You are free netizens can use Google, can’t you?), you can understand how awkward the question is.“Stop claiming Taiwan” = definately trigger condition 2 & 3 in same time.So you got a dilemma: Once if “China stop claiming Taiwan”, the state of People’s Republic of China is OBLIGATED to continue the WAR.Are you happy to see it? No?Here is your all possible option:Change the mind of CCP, cuz their 2/3 seats in NPC could do something ASL.Change the mind of majority of Mainlanders, their public opinion could significantly influence the Party.Change the mind of the State Council of PRC, to let them willing to disobey the law from supreme legislature.A small tip about NPC:NPC has not veto bills, because those who have not earned enough support never get raised to vote. But the ratio of support indeed shows how controversy the bill is. (i.e. Three-Gorge Dam got 841 of 2635 disagree)ASL has the highest ever approve rate of legislation in NPC the history (2896: 0, 2 abstention).Dude, 0 oppose in congress voting, this is really serious.
China to Taiwan today is nothing like Great Britain to America.When did America rule England, Scotland, Ireland? When did America say “We’re the real Great Britain! We are the only legitimate government of the entire Great Britain!”Taiwan, whose official legal name is the Republic of China, is a rump state that used to govern the entire China. Many people are not aware that Taiwan’s constitution still claims not only the Taiwan island, which is referred to as the Free Area of China, but also mainland China, plus Hong Kong, Macau, some part of Russia, and the entire Mongolia. (See also: Taiwan)The split between Taiwan and mainland is caused by the Chinese Civil War.America has never governed Great Britain. Taiwan (ROC), on the other hand, is essentially China’s old “government-in-exile”, and claimed to be the sole legitimate government on China until in the 70s when the UN replaced ROC with its claimed successor PRC, and then the United States started to recognize Beijing as China’s legitimate government instead of Taiwan.As a competing regime for the entirety of China, Taiwan (ROC) has been recognized as the real China before the 70s by most non-communist countries, including United States, Japan, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Iceland, and nearly all European countries.Also, most Chinese people in mainland see Taiwanese as their brothers and sisters. It’s also emotionally unacceptable for Chinese people to see Taiwan being officially separated from China.Due to these reasons, it is political suicide for China to stop claiming Taiwan, a competing regime that has always claimed to be “the real China”.
It cannot because of historical and national security reasons.Historically the island of Taiwan or Formosa (name given by the Portuguese ) was part of China for 4 centuries before it was lost for the Japanese in the sino-japanese war, then it was recovered after the ww2, at that time China was on civil war, the nationalists (KMT) the former government of China lead by Chiang Kai-Shek was fighting the communists lead by Mao Zedong, communists won and pushed the nationalists back, given them no other choice other than retreat to Taiwan which by then was part of Fujian province, when they arrived and under protection of USA they established and created a new government separated from the mainland and named it the Republic of China (ROC), IT IS STILL CHINA! The problem is that both sides claim that they r the legitimate ruler of China, PRC and ROC are officially still at war, no peace treaty was ever signed, ROC sees the PRC as illegitimate, and PRC sees ROC as illegitimate and is illegally occupying its territory which was part of Fujian, the result is what you see today.National security reasons, imo I think PRC wouldn't have mind to give Taiwan its independence if the island was far away from mainland China like how USA is far way from GB, but the fact it is not, the island and the mainland are separated by the strait of Taiwan 180km wide, YES IT IS THAT CLOSE ! China will definitely not risk to have another American base in their doorstep specially one that is so close to SHANGHAI, the only way for Taiwan to get independence is by war, and because of these reasons the “One China” policy is inegotiable and is firmly stated from the Chinese diplomats and leaders, any attempt to change this will be seen in Beijing as a act of war.
The Taiwan status quo may be sui generis, but it has worked well to keep the peace. There is no reason to hurry to change it.I compare it to the Christian Trinity - it seems contradictory, but worked and stayed in place permanently.
Talking about Great Britain and US, you forgot the most important part: to be an independent country, a war broke out and US won. If Taiwan declare independence, there would be a war immediately. Taiwan could be independent if they can defeat mainland China, just like US.