
We'll stop claiming Taiwan as part of China when white people stop claiming the North American continent as their country. I mean, after all, looking at the last 10,000 years of history, the North American continent was part of the United States for only 3 centuries, 5 if we count the first colonial settlements. Shouldn't Americans be honest and stop making claims on the North American continent, return it to Native Americans and go back where they came from?No? That would be absurd? OK. Perhaps not the entire North American continent. Maybe just Hawaii? After all, looking back at the past 2000 years of Hawaiian history ever since Hawaii islands had human occupants, it was under US rule for only 60 years. And the Hawaiian sovereignty movement is actually still a thing, in case you didn't know about it. Have you tried to petition the US to leave Hawaii alone?No? Have you tried to raise this with Chinese people? Since this is primarily a Chinese issue, why don't you go talk to actual Chinese people on a Chinese website, instead of talking about it English, on a website most Chinese people have never heard of?Now… do you really want to know the answer, or this is actually a statement thinly veiled as a question?China is such an easy target, isn't it? Questioning the evil communist country and defending the poor victim Taiwan would score you so many moral brownie points here on an English, predominantly western website.That being said, I think China should stop with the whole historical claim bullshit. After all, if the US can be used as an example of anything, we sure know that historical claim means literally NOTHING when you have the strongest standing army on earth. And the reason Taiwan gets to maintain its ambiguous rogue nation status is precisely because of the said strongest standing army on earth.I think China should be honest and say:“Taiwan is part of China, historical claim or not. You want Taiwan independence? Sure, come and get it on your pretentious moral high horse leading your non-existing army, and we'll see how that goes.”Bigger army diplomacy is the the best and most effective diplomacy.Oh and, you really shouldn't use Pakistan and India as your example, those countries had enough of the longest and bloodiest history of conflict with the most ambiguous border territories to write 10 books.
I have to say that in my opinion, no. Full disclosure, I am not Taiwanese but my wife and kids are, and I’m not pro-china, but it tires me when the people who want to support Taiwan independence trot out the “we’re not historically part of China” story.Based on the facts that you reference, it seems that China has as solid a footing as anyone to claim Taiwan as a part of their territory. The fact remains that the majority of the people residing on this little island can probably trace their roots back to colonization by the Chinese mainlanders during (or just slightly before) the 270 year period, and these colonization efforts were done with the understanding that “yes, Taiwan would be part of China.” Its not as if this place was teeming with Han Chinese for 5000 years and China just kinda decided that this meant it had dibs. Even the Chinese that came here prior to that (Koxinga and the like) were here to settle it for China.Moreover you can also trot out Chiang Kai Shek and his merry band of KMT soldiers, who fled here and claimed Taiwan as the rightful seat of the Government of China. Seems hard to deny that there is some kind of historical tie when this sort of thing is taking place, right? “Independent Taiwan” wasn’t even an option on the menu before 1996 when the first direct presidential election was held here, and 270 years is short? Now you can argue that Chiang was misguided and didn’t speak for Taiwan, but you can’t have it both ways. If you’re honest with yourself, you should note that without Chiang theres no US + allies to back up Taiwan’s very existence in the late 40s through 60s, and we wouldn’t be having these discussions now.So there you have it, without cherry picking the facts, it seems that China has some kind of historical claim/tie going on. Whether that history supersedes the will of most of the people on this island is another thing altogether, but lets not pretend that the history isn’t there.
Should or not is inessential, you need to let National People’s Congress of PRC abolish <Anti-Secession Law>.People constantly asking about Taiwan, like they really care.Then appear have 0 understanding about the issue, which makes people highly doubt their intention of asking. Hardly can find a metaphor worse than this “GB and US”. It is even more accurate if you use the territory change in Seven Years War for analogy!Anyway, it’s Quora.Just please do some basic reading, (Cant stop the stronger feeling many such questions are trolling).They are history ABC and darn open files! Chinese Civil War (1946– ), 3 Joint Communiques (PRC-US), Taiwan Relations Act (US-ROC), ASL (PRC criterion since 2005).Since PRC’s ASL, among all side, is the the only one stipulate mandatory action, I shall make a brief introduction here.Anti-Secession Law is proposed on the 3rd conference of the 10th National People’s Congress, ratified by the vote on March 14, 2005, went into effect immediately, Presidential Decree No.34 in 2005, promulgated the law at the same day.The Article 8 makes it very clear that The State shall use non-peaceful and all necessary means once any these alternative conditions happen:1) Once if any "Taiwan independence" forces, under whatever name and method, accomplish the fact of Taiwan's separation from China;2) or if a significant event occurs, which would determinately lead to Taiwan's separation from China;3) or if all possibility of peaceful unification is lost.I admit the law is a bit controversy, because lack clear interpretation to condition 3). Doves think it authorize unlimited power to State to launch assault anytime, while Hawks believe it is for stall the final decision as long as possible.But this controverse is nothing about OP question. Once anyone have searched and read the law, (You are free netizens can use Google, can’t you?), you can understand how awkward the question is.“Stop claiming Taiwan” = definately trigger condition 2 & 3 in same time.So you got a dilemma: Once if “China stop claiming Taiwan”, the state of People’s Republic of China is OBLIGATED to continue the WAR.Are you happy to see it? No?Here is your all possible option:Change the mind of CCP, cuz their 2/3 seats in NPC could do something ASL.Change the mind of majority of Mainlanders, their public opinion could significantly influence the Party.Change the mind of the State Council of PRC, to let them willing to disobey the law from supreme legislature.A small tip about NPC:NPC has not veto bills, because those who have not earned enough support never get raised to vote. But the ratio of support indeed shows how controversy the bill is. (i.e. Three-Gorge Dam got 841 of 2635 disagree)ASL has the highest ever approve rate of legislation in NPC the history (2896: 0, 2 abstention).Dude, 0 oppose in congress voting, this is really serious.
Hi folks, the other day an acquaintance of mine showed me a nifty book he got from the People’s Republic of China visa office, it’s an illustrated history of Taiwan:Ok first we start with devilish Japanese pirates raiding Taiwan because they have always been invaders and never owned Taiwan in a legitimate way:You can tell the artist enjoys Japanese culture because that ō-yoroi suit of samurai armor is the most carefully and accurately drawn thing in the bookThen the devilish Dutch imperialists sail in and kick around people in the name of their god:*Not historically accurate clothing or weaponry (off by 200 years) but I don’t think the cartoonist cared all that muchWe see the plight of the simple Taiwanese native, bone through nose and all:But eventually the enlightened Ming dynasty remnants (because the barbaric Manchus had seized the mainland) come in to liberate Taiwan:And times were good, but then the Qing who are the legitimate rulers of mainland China want to welcome their lost Chinese brothers in Taiwan back to the family but are rudely rejected:Then some stuff happens for the next hundred years, devilish Japanese return and traitorous honorless Taiwanese turn their back on China and accept Japan as their masters until Japan is defeated and Taiwan is once again liberated and… I forget how exactly they word the current Republic in China government being in Taiwan makes it officially belong to the People’s Republic of China, but they go for that angle.The illustrated history of Taiwan was actually pretty informative as it provides numbers for some battles I had heard of, but all in all it was pretty silly and the message of “Taiwan belongs to the PRC” was definitely shoehorned in by government policy and the authors really didn’t care about having it make sense.…it also informs westerners ignorant of Taiwanese history of how often Taiwan was ruled by Chinese governments that didn’t consider themselves part of the mainland government, or by Europeans. So maybe this book was too informative.Perhaps the subtext of this comic book wasn’t “Taiwan has always been a part of China”, but “Taiwan has always belonged to the most dead killy dude on the island”.So the answer to “SHOULD the PRC stop claiming…” is that whether something is historically a part of something has never mattered compared to who has the most military force there at any given time.
China to Taiwan today is nothing like Great Britain to America.When did America rule England, Scotland, Ireland? When did America say “We’re the real Great Britain! We are the only legitimate government of the entire Great Britain!”Taiwan, whose official legal name is the Republic of China, is a rump state that used to govern the entire China. Many people are not aware that Taiwan’s constitution still claims not only the Taiwan island, which is referred to as the Free Area of China, but also mainland China, plus Hong Kong, Macau, some part of Russia, and the entire Mongolia. (See also: Taiwan)The split between Taiwan and mainland is caused by the Chinese Civil War.America has never governed Great Britain. Taiwan (ROC), on the other hand, is essentially China’s old “government-in-exile”, and claimed to be the sole legitimate government on China until in the 70s when the UN replaced ROC with its claimed successor PRC, and then the United States started to recognize Beijing as China’s legitimate government instead of Taiwan.As a competing regime for the entirety of China, Taiwan (ROC) has been recognized as the real China before the 70s by most non-communist countries, including United States, Japan, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Iceland, and nearly all European countries.Also, most Chinese people in mainland see Taiwanese as their brothers and sisters. It’s also emotionally unacceptable for Chinese people to see Taiwan being officially separated from China.Due to these reasons, it is political suicide for China to stop claiming Taiwan, a competing regime that has always claimed to be “the real China”.