
Who starts the war. Who fires the first shot. Does it matter?The US is unlikely to go to war just for Taiwan and either is China. People often get caught up about a very narrow situation, and realistically its not just that particular thing, its not that simple. While the shooting of single person did start WW1, it wasn’t the only thing happening that lead it to war, you need the whole environment.What we have is China sending some pretty strong messages about the South China Sea (and the sea of Japan). This is making everyone nervous.This has countries like Singapore, Taiwan, Malaysia, Vietnam, Japan, Korea, Philippines, Indonesia, Australia, the US pretty concerned. That is an understatement. Many of these countries are outright panicking.Some like the Philippines seem to be changing allegiances or at least doing a lot of maneuvering around that and electing some pretty crazy extreme leadership, hoping they come out ok by playing both sides.Duterte Turns Back On US, Orders Philippines To Buy Weapons From Russia And ChinaMalaysia is asking questions of both sides, so while not publicly flip flopping, its obviously got issues and has some curious leadership which is unraveling.Malaysia will start buying navy vessels from China — and it's a big blow to the USVietnam has moved about 15,000 km east of its current position and currently knocking on the US’s door.Vietnam asks U.S. to "fully lift" the ban on weapon sales - VnExpress InternationalJapan has gone from diplomatically concerned, to this is going to happen prepare for war, increasing submarine build rates and signing a defence deal with Australia and trying to engage India. Oh yeh, they now sell arms. And it just bought more MV-22’s.Japan increasing size of submarine fleetIndia To Buy Aircraft From Japan For $1.5 BillionIndonesia which was spared most of the issues around the SCS and had a pretty good relationship with China, is now knee deep in water and looking for friends that might want to help out.Indonesia to Sink 71 Foreign Fishing Boats Amid South China Sea TensionsAustralia and Indonesia consider joint patrols in South China SeaSingapore something even more dramatic has happened their extremely powerful Lee Kwan Yew force field just literally died and they have also hit the holey shit this might really happen button and are neck deep in the water looking for friends and a new magic field. Its even talked about buying an aircraft carrier.Troop carriers seized: Is China sending Singapore a message?Singaporean army to sink $2 billion into expanding Queensland basesSingapore’s Aircraft Carrier AmbitionsMeanwhile Australia has quietly acquired more amphibious power than the UK with two large carriers, spending more on submarines than France, and is buying as many American fighter planes off two production lines (F-35 and F-18 Super Hornets) as it can get away with (pushing in front of the USN orders), while simultaneously trying to poach as many sailors and from the UK, Spain and France as it can while renting Spains navy and getting gifted ships from the UK. Australia can’t be any closer to the US (and is’t directly threatened by China’s claims), 2,500 will be based in Darwin, but seems to be entering an arms race with itself. Australia literally couldn’t absorb new equipment or start new programs faster than it currently is doing during peace time.US MARINE DEPLOYMENT IN DARWIN - “BORDERING ON THE REMARKABLE!”France wins $50b contract to help build Australia's new submarinesAustralias 2nd Fighter Fleet: Super Hornets GrowlersRAAF ‘set to match US Navy’Australia's first Joint Strike Fighter takes inaugural flightF-35 ready for service, says US air force, as Australia and Britain await deliverySPS Cantabria deployment agreement signedDefence spending boost will put $1 trillion price tag on next two decades, says expertSubscribe to The Advertiser (they launched a new destroyer yesterday)Then we have the US. Who elects Trump. Trump the man who questioned allies and publicly criticised China during the campaign, and not about little stuff like human rights, but about the fundamental relationship between the US and China, about jobs, about respect, about military posture. The man has put in hawks in as many positions as he can find for them, I don’t think we have seen an administration this hawksided in living memory, at least since Reagan.Why Trump is more similar to Reagan than you might thinkChina starts to take a tougher line, to assert itself and its interests. The media monster goes out of control and people start talking themselves into corners.Chinese ambassador to US: 'Sovereignty not a bargaining chip'Log In - New York Times - A U.S. Admiral’s Bluntness Rattles China, and WashingtonNow you have your powder keg. If you check my links, nearly all of them are from the last 6 months. So it gives you an idea about the sort of pace that is occurring in theses events.Now all we need is some wacky nationalists to get elected in Taiwan, or in some other SCS nation and start doing very provocative things and things degenerate.It could be Taiwan, it could be Taiwan via proxy. It could be anything. Most likely China will go out and directly challenge the US or the US will go out and directly challenge China.It does appear we are now heading down the path where its is going to be resolved through action. Alternatives are drying up.
Taiwan Relations Act - WikipediaMilitary provisions of the Taiwan Relations Act:The Taiwan Relations Act potentially requires the U.S. to intervene militarily if the PRC attacks or invades Taiwan. The act states that "the United States will make available to Taiwan such defense articles and defense services in such quantity as may be necessary to enable Taiwan to maintain a sufficient self-defense capabilities". However, the decision about the nature and quantity of defense services that America will provide to Taiwan is to be determined by the President and Congress. America's policy has been called "strategic ambiguity" and it is designed to dissuade Taiwan from a unilateral declaration of independence, and to dissuade the PRC from unilaterally unifying Taiwan with the PRC.The act further stipulates that the United States will "consider any effort to determine the future of Taiwan by other than peaceful means, including by boycotts or embargoes, a threat to the peace and security of the Western Pacific area and of grave concern to the United States".This act also requires the United States "to provide Taiwan with arms of a defensive character", and "to maintain the capacity of the United States to resist any resort to force or other forms of coercion that would jeopardize the security, or the social or economic system, of the people on Taiwan." Successive U.S. administrations have sold arms to Taiwan in compliance with the Taiwan Relations Act despite demands from the PRC that the U.S. follow the legally non-binding Three Joint Communiques and the U.S. government's proclaimed One-China policy (which differs from the PRC's so-called one-China principle).Based on the language of the Taiwan Relations Act, the U.S. would clearly go to war with China if China uses force to invade Taiwan absent a formal declaration of independence. However, if Taiwan unilaterally declares independence (highly unlikely without formal support of the U.S. or China), the U.S. may decide to avoid a full scale conflict with the PRC.
The Three Communiqués were a US-PRC agreement on the Taiwan status quo combining the one-China principle and peaceful resolution of the Taiwan issue. In the PRC it is codified in the 2005 Anti-Secession Law.In Taiwan a “declaration of independence” abrogating the status quo is supported only by a small fringe, in the current legislature the New Power Party with 5 seats of 123. Therefore it is extremely unlikely. It would merely be an invitation to invade.In that unlikely case, the most likely first US response would be to not recognize such a declaration but call it a very bad idea and strongly urge disavowing it and reaffirming the status quo.Using US military forces to discourage or moderate a resumption of fighting in the Chinese Civil War which has been suspended since 1950 would be an absolute last resort. It would be for protecting the status quo and not for supporting a declaration of independence.
I have answered a simillar question.The USA wouldn’t start a war with China.Let’s assume the war break out.America send the soldiers. But how many?A little group is not enough. It will be more symbolic than changing the battlefield.A large enough group to face conflict with PLA. Then, it requires two conditions.1, Taiwan could stand until the US assembles large group and transports to the heat pot.2, America should pay for a countless money for transportation to a disadvantageous place. (a, An empirical equation is the combat power is inversely proportional to the square of distance between motherland and the battlefield. b, When USA army left Iraq and Afghanistan they left many weapons for transporting the weapons home is even more expensive than producing a new one. The Taiwan battle prefers a two times price one-day shipping fee than a standard one.)Then the war breaks out.If the war balance lean towards America and TaiwanAs the humilities century and the legitimacy of CCP government, the battle will upgrade to another level. At that time China will put all the industries to support the war. I should mention that China has the largest industrial capacity in the world about half of the world and 1.5 times of America ignoring the quality.Then, China still lose control of the war. HEHEHE… I think we should face the same destiny all over the world. At that time, if only Chinese lose the industry, the humilities will repeat and Chinese will never have opportunity to stand up again. So after restarting the world and with a bigger population, China is easily to be the next super power when every country starts from zero. (In the game of CIVILIZATION 5, India AI has the highest chance bursting a nuclear war because of its high population unique ability) Just look simply in this way, the nude winter will be harder for other countries. (Declaration： I am totally antiwar and never never want my families, my friends and myself live in nude winter, but if China needs me I will donate all of mine even life.)If the war leans towards ChinaFor better situation, the USA will lose her face and normal Americans may be demanded the council to protest the war.For worse situation, the USA will lose the super power position and shrink her area to the middle of the Pacific.No matter which one result, the USA will add an unbearable debt. According to Americans, the Iraq war spends 2 trillion dollars. An approximately number of Taiwan war, just simply multiply by 10 and it will be as high as 20 trillion dollars. I also should mention the total number of the debt of America is 20 trillion now.To sum up, who has a stronger willing will win the war. For Chinese, Taiwan independence is unacceptable. Chinese has set law to force the government go through the military way if Taiwan independents. For Americans, Taiwan is not Hawaii and may be twice important than the South Vietnam. The war breaks out, eventually to be all lose.Give me a reason, Why American pay so much to Taiwan? Yeah, The US is able to do the sanction and it is also very hurtful to herself.The most probably ending is that China pays an extremely high price to the west world, own Taiwan and keep the earth as usual.
The answer to your question is: Nobody knows!But think of matters this way: There’s only one way to find out; and is Beijing prepared to risk a mushroom cloud to find out?See here’s the thing: The US is sworn, by law, to defend Taiwan. The US has ‘played along’ and ‘kept quiet’ about all of Beijing’s “one China” pleadings, to basically freeze this issue in place, to both parties mutual benefit.The Chinese, in my view, escalate this issue at their peril. First, the US is militarily stronger than China, and second (and often overlooked), American ‘honor’ is on the line with Taiwan. Since the US has promised to protect Taiwan, if China attacks it will force America to retaliate, not only for the sake of Taiwan itself, but because America can’t been seen by the whole world to violate its promises (recall that America has promised a great many nations that it will defend them, and it can’t afford to allow its word to be broken).TLDR: Will America get involved if China attacks Taiwan? …………. ABSOLUTELY, YES!!!(So to all my ‘Chinese monitoring’ friends, watching over the ‘great firewall of China’ reading this … tell your bosses: Cool it with the Taiwan stuff! It helps nobody. Remember your own Chinese saying: “If you set out to get revenge, dig two graves.” A Chinese military attack on Taiwan ultimately ends only one way: With ‘regime change’ in Beijing! )Also: Everyone forgets a few things: The US has military superiority in things like nuclear weapons, and jets, and attack troops, etc, etc … and yes, yes, China is very big, and perhaps unconquerable by US forces, and many Chinese think this will ultimately protect them … but remember: China is no match for the US Navy! The US Navy don’t even have to fight in the South China Sea, like the Chinese are imagining; they can simply lay off China and blockade the whole nation, until they give Taiwan back —- The Chinese economy collapses, and the country starves, in less than 6 months if this happens, 9 months tops. That is if the CCP doesn’t lose control and get toppled first. Like I said: The only way an invasion of Taiwan ends is with regime change in Beijing! The US does not even need to fight in Taiwan to ultimately win.