
Hahaha…don't they realise the official name for local Chinese in Malaysia is 'Cina’, which sounds like 支那. I personally think that Cina and 支那 came from the same root.What do I think when someone call me 支那? I brush it off. Heck, I don't make a fuss when a racist call me Cina Babi (Chinese pig), unless I want to make a scene for my own benefit.Side note:From the conversation above, the Taiwanese clearly shows that he or she has almost zero understanding on the overseas Chinese communities. The hilarious part of the conversation is the person sort of think that it is okay to group Chinese Malaysian and mainland Chinese together, and single Taiwanese out from the Sino family. Does s/he know that in our eyes, Taiwaneses are much more Chinese than us?
I don’t think many Malaysian Chinese pay close attention to PTT, a closed Taiwanese forum only accessible by Taiwanese. I tried to register on the forum many years ago but was requested to produce a Taiwan ID or something before I could write a thing. So it’s not likely that Malaysian Chinese could see this particular thread and have a thought about it.To me, it is just a platform for some angry Taiwanese to spew crap. In fact, if you look closely to the pictures, all that matters is this “micotosai” asshole who says it.Life goes on.Thanks for the A2A.
I would think those Taiwanese failed their history and geography. 支那 is an old geographical name referring to French Indo-China 印度支那，印支三邦 (present day Cambodia, Laos, Vietnam) that is no longer in use.
Shina was a term used by IJA during the second Sino-Japanese war refering to the Republic of China as a insulting appellation. They seldom used the term again after the war and especially after Communist China had defeated the Americans in Korea out of deference to the strong.So when guys from the Republic of China use the word to call others, they are simply insulting themselves while they don't realize it. They just don’t realize that how could a giant be irritated by a bumptious bug, he is only annoyed. Dare they declare independence?
Taiwanese as a group is a big complex itself. It includes many kinds - Indigenous peoples (this covers many sub-groups), Chinese migrants settled long time ago, Chinese migrants that fled the communists rule around 1949, Japanese migrants, and many hybrid people that have two or more above-mentioned bloodlines.Today's Japan obviously is a more admirable country than China, and Japan is also more favoured by western world since China is "communist" and Japan is US's ally. It is not surprising at all that some Taiwanese would love to emphasize the 'Japanese' part in them, no matter they really have Japanese bloodline or just pretend to have, and enjoy using "shee-na-jin" the Japanese despising slur for Chinese people, so that they can feel themselves somewhat getting closer to their Japanese ancestors, if they really have any or pretend to have one.If any Malaysian would like to have a rational conversation with Taiwanese, you'd better talk in Japanese, and you will find they become surprisingly gentle and obedient.