
I think she is an ideal most of us and our parent's generation strive for, you know, well educated, composed, speak with a soft gentle voice, the typical 君子 type modern Confucian.I am dubious of her policy (which tend to lean towards anti - globalism, extreme environmentalist , and that's not even getting to the brinkmanship against China part.)  and her party's general trend (being ever more influenced and playing along with extreme rhetoric from the newly radicalized youths.), the extreme elements that support them (if anyone wants examples, I can give you a boat load of links provided you can read mandarin.).  all of which turn me off to various degree.I am also skeptical if she can hold her party together once it become apparent they are the new big fish and people start fighting over the new pie. (which people now forget, was the reason why the last DPP administration switched PM every half a year with no obvious policy reasons.) She isn't from a traditional powerful political family nor has she even won any election before this one.  suffice to say her actual political base is probably weaker than most people seem to realize if she needs to deal with internal challenge.The other part of course, is that all the things I said about her in the first part all holds true for the out going President anyway as well, and he has a been a political mess in the last few years. So... the solution is to elect someone with a really close profile? a soft speaking American educated technocrat  ?Having said that, I find this election to be completely unvotable anyway, I am not voting for any of her opponents either.  the KMT should lose, but I wished the alternative were better.
Things have not gone terribly well for the Tsai administration in the first 7 months or so.Her policies have not been terribly popular and in some of the same places as the Ma administration that helped propel her to a huge election victory in early 2016.The latest issue has been the working days that have been subtracted which may have been for some good reasons, but are extremely unpopular with the working class.Meanwhile, tourism has increased from other countries with the vacancy created by far less mainland tour groups, but retail spending has dropped like every month since March 2016 before she was even in office.It is true that there have been other tourists, but they do not spend the way that mainlanders do, and all forms of retail have been been down for the past 10 months or so. People are not happy.On the international front, Taiwan or rather the ROC has started getting bullied, but that’s really not so important. It just looks a bit bad.Tsai was able to gain a lot of support by taking advantage of a weak Ma administration, but she has shown to be a fairly petty person. Her administration sort of lost credibility before it began with her announcement that they were going to go after the KMT assets which at the end of the day actually just benefits the DPP party and not the common people so much even though its in the name of returning property to people and the state and such.It may be a necessary thing Taiwan has to go through so the assets issue is not talked about forever, but the way the committee led by Koo Li-Hsiung is handling things, it looks more like an excuse to bankrupt the KMT party by freezing all of its assets so that the party employees all have to look for another job.Meanwhile, the New Power Party openly declared it wants to be the 2nd biggest political party in Taiwan by simply subtracting the KMT from the scene. It seems like Tsai utilized those kids in the Sunflower movement extremely well, and they got exactly what they wanted from their illegal occupation of government buildings to stop the trade agreement, but one has to ask itself now about 3 years later, what was the benefit for the general public.In the end, it was really just a political struggle with the DPP and Sunflower kids winning out, but there is no tangible benefit to the people. The economy cannot improve under these kinds of conditions and those scare tactics they used to get everyone to believe that China was going to take over the economy if the trade agreement was passed cannot be discussed anymore.Now it has just become a worsening economy with only real tangible political benefits for the DPP party and the NPP who think they can jump to political stardom by simply using mob rule tactics and piggy backing behind the DPP for political power.But one day, things will break down between the 2 groups, and when the NPP does not necessarily get what it wants one day in terms of Legislative Yuan seats or some other position, news will start to leak out that Tsai really was behind the Sunflower movement. Her and Wang Jin-Ping.Of course, most of us already suspected that or knew that a long time ago, but how can she be president and have done something totally illegal like that. This news won’t be a surprise to most people, but it will hurt her credibility because she still has plausible deniability even though its fairly obvious that those actions were taken to promote her campaign as the students at the Legislative Yuan and later the Examination Yuan were springboards to the presidency for Tsai.Tsai basically discredited herself before she even became president. She was horribly jealous when Ma went to go shake hands with Xi, and was really the benefactor of an extremely unpopular Ma as well as his entire administration.However, her administration is proving to be even worse in some aspects that the Ma administration actually got right. In retrospect, the Ma administration really wasn’t that bad although people took for granted at that time what it was doing right.But things don’t seem that bad for her because the media is more pro-green or at least neutral and the criticism is not as bad as it was for the Ma administration. The media is not going 24/7 about how bad Ma is anymore, so that’s a relief. It’s not going 24/7 about how bad Tsai is, but if you just talk to ordinary people, they are not terribly happy.Tsai will probably go down as a fairly petty president whose only real accomplishment is getting back some properties from the KMT party and making them state enterprises instead of party assets. While that will make some people feel the world is more fair, it has really nothing to do with the welfare of the general public and when that is not placed first, people are not going to have a good memory of her when she steps down from office.And hating on the KMT party for their ineptness, stupidity, and arrogance can really only go so far when they have been out of power for a while and the finger is being pointed in the other direction.
We'll find out after the January 16 Taiwan National Elections. Right now, polls indicate that she has an overwhelming lead over the KMT candidate and is well poised to become Taiwan's next President by a massive landslide.Perhaps it's more fair to say that she is not as popular among Taiwanese as someone like Taipei Mayor Ko Wen-je, but she is generally well respected and able to capture the support of moderate voters in Taiwan. She has the experience and temperament to become the leader of the country.But in reality, she is probably riding the wave of anti-KMT sentiment right now. The KMT (especially Ma Ying-jeou) is very much hated and despised in Taiwan at the moment, and there is strong momentum in the country to electorally punish the KMT for their 8 years of economic incompetence and pro-China positions.
The saying that one can run any dog against a certain candidate in an election and the mutt candidate would win by a landslide. That's the case in the coming Taiwan  presidential election where the candidate to go down in certain defeat is the KMT one. Tsai has been nicknamed 空心菜by Taiwanese political pundits - roughly a play on her last name and labelling her as a vacuous Tsai. The following article says it all. 　空心菜，“空心蔡”之謂也。特指蔡英文的個人特質、執政經驗、兩岸論述。自從2012年競逐台灣當局領導人始，蔡英文在島內就被貼上了“空心菜”的標簽，最重要的原因就在於她的兩岸政策論述，似是而非，空洞無物。一會兒說，台灣與大陸有共同責任和利益，兩岸須維持“和而不同”“和而求同”關係，一會兒又說要凝聚什麼“台灣共識”。歸根結底，是想回避“九二共識”，不想丟棄“台獨”神主牌。B