
I was born in China and grew up speaking Mandarin, so I cannot speak from my own experiences “learning Chinese”. However, as a Mandarin Chinese teacher of 8 years, I often have these conversations, often with North American students of mine.Some answers I frequently hear:China is vast: geographically, linguistically and culturally. There is no singular “Chinese” culture or language. There are hundreds of regional variances, dialects and ethnicities. Of course, most of my students are learning Mandarin with one of the northeast accents, but once they begin studying here, they realize that there are so many accents and regional dialects. As they travel about, hear regional slang and languages, they quickly learn that China varies greatly from city to city, province to province.Food is central to Chinese culture, including our language. A traditional greeting in China is: 你吃了吗? (Nǐ chīle ma?) Have you eaten yet?". You may have already guessed this, or figured it out on your first day in China, but food and mealtime holds an important and pivotal place in the lives of Chinese people, much moreso than in North America. When you begin learning Chinese, you’ll find so many references to food and mealtime.Foreigners can learn Chinese morality through ancient fables. Many of my students are children. They are fascinated by the ancient Chinese fables such as Ask a Fox For its Skin, The Painted Snake, The Rabbit and the Tree Stump, and so on. These stories often are different from American stories such as Paul Bunyan who work alone and are “larger than life”. Ancient Chinese stories largely incorporate and teamwork and downplay heroism.All-in-all, learning and staying tuned in with Chinese culture, both ancient and modern, is a great way to propel your Mandarin Chinese learning experience.
Something I’m always fascinated by is how so many Chinese words carry connotations based on the way they sound. Examples:Death Gods Like Apples— and so do Chinese peopleA common Christmas present in China is apples wrapped in beautiful gift wrapping—Christmas with a Chinese flavor. Giving apples on Christmas Eve is an interesting custom that can be seen in China. So why apples? Chinese people care a lot about harmony. The “苹 (píng)“ in “苹果 (píngguǒ) apple” and the “平 (píng)” in “平安 (píng’ān) safe” have the same sound, and so to Chinese people giving an apple has the metaphorical meaning of wishing someone “平安 (píng’ān).”The Number That Must Not Be NamedIn the Chinese language, 4(sì) has similar pronunciation with “死(sǐ) die,” which gives people an ominous, unlucky feeling. For this reason, Chinese people don’t like and actively avoid the number 4.Never Give a “钟 (zhōng) Clock” as a GiftIn Chinese, “送钟 (sòngzhōng) clock” and “送终 (sòngzhōng) to attend upon a dying parent or other senior members of one’s family” are homo-phonic.Superstitions like these are a major part of Chinese culture, and it’d be best to avoid as many as possible should you decide to visit or live there.Free eBook - Chinese Taboos to Avoid
“How do I say no?”“There’s no Chinese word for ‘no’ really..” my teacher frowned.“What about yes?”“We don’t have that either..”“Then what do you have?”“Affirmatives and negatives of the verb.”..whatever that meant.I was enticed by the possibility of a land without yes and no—a land of, “you can do it!”But the absence of the word “no” is not the same as plastering the word “yes!” everywhere.In fact, a glass-half-empty’er might have looked at it the opposite way: as a land without “yes” at all.China is, in fact, neither.I did finally learn what it meant. The Chinese do not have one word for “no,” they have a hundred.The more Chinese I understood, the worse off I felt.My days were once full of these foreign-sounding tonal words I didn’t quite grasp, but strove eagerly to comprehend.I worked diligently every day.And suddenly, my days became filled with no:不可以 / not okay, 不行 / not okay, 不要 / don’t want, 不可能 / cannot, 不用 / don’t need, 没有 / don’t have, 不是/ is not，没办法 / have no wayIt seemed that every week I learned a new “no” in the hardest way possible. I cried at a lot of them.“America is such a land of yes! Why is China is a land of no?! I was never told ‘no’ so much in America!” I cried through tears.My boyfriend rolled his eyes at me and pulled me in for a hug.I went on this way for about a year, always a little mopey, cynical, and sometimes even critical of China and it’s “closed-mindedness”... until a lightbulb flashed on in my head.I was translating everything back into English in my head, so I took each “no” in Chinese as a solid no, instead of taking it at face value.I realized that all of these ways of saying “no” literally each translated just to “no” in English. But in Chinese, a no is not the same as English’s hard and fast “no”.That meant for every “no” that a Chinese person says in English, there should be a 为什么？/ a “why?” following it up.“No” in Chinese carries more information than in English and opens up the door to further questions.No is an opportunity.It’s an opportunity to find common ground, to solve problems, to challenge expectations and the basics.So why wasn’t I asking the follow up to “no”? Why wasn’t I asking… “why”?So I did. I started asking why.Why enabled me to figure out why factories were only allowing us to print 1 color, when 2 or 3 were possible (they didn’t think we’d want to pay $0.02 more/bottle).Why made me empathize, instead of criticize. It helped me understand the plight of the Chinese working class.Why made conversation flow and formed new bonds with new—and sometimes unlikely—friends.Understanding “no” helped me finally understand China, because it made me ask “why”. It helped me find my peace and my footing here and finally, finally feel like I belong. In fact, it helped me understand myself, and get over my fear of hearing the word “no”.No is an opportunity, because when we take the time to find out where the no is coming from, we can open up the why, and they why gets us one step closer to finally understanding each other .. and often ourselves as well.
So I’ve been able to speak Chinese almost-fluently (meaning I can form and understand sentences, but sometimes have trouble with phrasing) since I was very young. My family generally speaks a mix of Chinese and English at home, you see. So I can’t really talk about learning interesting things from learning to speak Chinese.However, two years ago, partially out of curiosity and partially because I had the time, I took a year of Chinese. It seems that there are some curious things you really miss out on if you don’t learn to read and write, which I’d like to share below:Saying sorry. Every beginner Chinese student knows this; it’s “duibuqi”. Actually it’s “dui”, “bu”, and “qi”, three characters put together in a single phrase. If you look at each character, they seem to have nothing to do with one another. “Dui” means “correct or right”; “bu” is a negative often used in contexts of disapproval, or desire to the contrary; “qi” is the first character in “qilai”, which means “to get up, or rise”. At least that’s what I thought originally. But when you start learning to form sentences, you might realize that this phrase is actually quite deep. The character for “dui” can be used, in casual form, as a legitimate and understandable response to any yes/no question. And “qi” can also be used in some contexts to indicate a sense of beginning (e.g. “I started my car up” or “I am too tired to start my work”). Putting these three characters together, then, literally means “I am unable to even begin an explanation that shows that I am right”. Extravagant way to say sorry right? Edit: refer to https://www.quora.com/What-are-s... for a correction to my answer.Gender. Another thing that confuses a lot of foreigners, myself included for a long time, is how anyone can understand each other when the pronouns he/she are exactly the same. After all, they’re both “ta”. In speech, one has to use context, but in literature or poetry, it’s not always possible. So what’s the difference? Both “he” and “she” have the same base character, but the “ta” for females has the “nu” radical for women.Honor from the heart. Either I never noticed, or no one in America has ever needed to do this with me, but something new I learned was the distinction between “ni” and “nin”. “Ni” means “you”, as does “nin”. However, the latter is reserved for cases in which the speaker needs to pay respect to the addressee. It’s commonly used when greeting customers to a restaurant, for example. Again, the character for “nin” is almost identical to “ni”, except the radical for “xin” or “heart” is present at the bottom of the character. The implication, of course, is that one should honor the addressee from the heart or with sincerity.I’ll add more if I can think of any more.Cheers!
Undoubtedly, The Rape of Nanking(now named Nanjing). Before I learned of this tragic genocide, I was never much interested in the Chinese people or their culture. I never found a reason to care about what happened there. That was, of course, until I learned about this horrid event.A quick run-down on what happened:1) Took place in Mid-Late 1930's.After the Chinese lost to the Japanese in the Sino-Japanese wars, the capital of China, Nanking, was invaded and overrun by the Japanese.2) Hundreds of thousands of people died in this one event in history. Alone.It's been estimated time and time again that somewhere around 300-400 THOUSAND were massacred over the course of around half a year. And this is after the war.3) An estimated 20-80 THOUSAND Chinese women have been raped in this one event.The number has been proven to be closer to 80 multiple times. On top of that, they were either brutally murdered afterwards or they took their own lives.4) Despite the unmistakable evidence that's as clear as crystal, this genocide is denied and downplayed.Thankfully, not many people deny this event or try to downplay it today. Mainly due to the fact that today's generation is much more liberal, accepting, understanding, and sympathetic, there's few people left on this earth that actually try to deny this event or downplay it by claiming it was not as bad as they claim. However, we hit another wall....Not enough people know about this event!Most people are very ignorant about their own country's history, let alone other countries' history.Concluding.Learn, learn, learn, learn, learn, learn, and learn. Don't stop learning. Find out about these things. Get educated. Educate others. Believe me when I tell you that history is essential knowledge. There are events that took place hundreds of years ago that still affect the lives of many people today. Imagine how other's lives are affected by events that took place less than a hundred years ago. Yes, it's undoubtedly a touchy subject, but, this world still has many problems that are crucial to solve, yet, they are still unsolved. No, quite frankly, you probably won't be the Chosen One who will solve all these problems, but, you can be a catalyst that pushed for a positive chemical reaction, no matter how 'small' or 'insignificant'.Carry on.Edit: This question used to be “What is the most interesting thing you've learned about Chinese history?” before it was merged into the question listed above.