
I have no idea.I have known some older Taiwanese who have worked in large corporations in the PRC, and when they got together, they would complain and laugh about certain practices and habits in the mainland.After a while, I got tired of listening to these Taiwanese complaints about mainland Chinese, and stopped socializing with them. I have no interest in socializing with people who only complain about things they don’t like.I also did not like that some of these Taiwanese socialized only among themselves, and did not seek to establish friendships with mainland Chinese. Sorry to say this, but many of the Taiwanese I knew in the mainland acted this way.It is my hope that the younger generation of Taiwanese working in the PRC don’t act this way.
I visited China when few Taiwanese did; beginning in 1981 when I finished my 2-years’ teaching tenure in Taiwan and before going back to the US, I decided to take a detour to see the Great Wall through Hong Kong. I remember clearly that on the trip what struck me the most was not the Wall itself, it was the shocking destitution and blatant shortage of basic necessities. For instance, a new bicycle was most coveted commodity among the populace in Beijing. My driver begged me to get him a bike, which Chinese citizens must wait years for their quota. Whereas at the “Friendship store”where only foreigners could shop person with hard currency an array of nikes could be purchased readily. I also noticed then I was repeatedly stopped by the armed guard at the hotel gate to check my passport because no Chinese citizens were allowed to enter Beijing Hotel. I grew up in southern Taiwan in its worst years but was never treated by out own country that way.As we drove out to the street before dawn, a ghostly picture loomed large in the dim: apparently, the light beam from our car stroke up thousands of people who literally slept on the open pavement to escape the smothering summer heat—many staggered to rise to free up a passage. As the car beams cast on the multitude, it was like a streaming silhouette of slow-dispersing cadavers. Yes, people spent the nights on street pavements in 1981 in China.We stopped at a small village before Badaling, a gateway to the Great Wall. Our car was swarmed over by the villagers who fervently pitched at us antique items they said they had found or dug up around the Wall. It was not the forceful solicitation that shook me, it was the devastatingly threadbare clothes on those people that left me shaking. I could hardly bear to see the shaggy claddings, the teeth-biting emaciated gazes, ot to mention the foul stench from the thatched shacks, and the hallow atrophied body frames. I asked myself: “Are these my people?”Yes, I was born in China and raised in Taiwan, and I was taught to believe one day we would return to save our people. Was Chiang Kai-shek not completely lying?1989, I was invited to lecture at some Chinese institutions. I was a bit apprehensive because of the 1981′ experience, but I also felt obliged to be given the second chance to see for myself the evolving China after Deng Xiaoping’s reform. Deep in me, there was a strange welling desire impulse to lend my feeble hand to helping China to go forward. As a Taiwanese, should I thank Chiang Kai-shek for the China-the-fatherland instilment in me? 1989, I met many intellectuals, including those who were fortunate enough to have studied abroad and back. I saw hopes and I sensed the silence and distrust in them and I felt their pains and frustrations as they were so much in dire needs for resources. In many guest houses for visitors, hot water was rationed; steady electricity a rarity, basic sanitation in short supply. Xeroxing had to be approved, and cars dispatching had to be stamped. And most notoriously at the time was lacking decent latrines.I was also privy to a funny-but-true story that a college barbarically wrestled over to turn its entire Russian language department to an English department—as a sign of the things to come.Yes, it was 1989, the year of the tragic Tien-An-Men event. I saw a transitional China, still young, still unsure of its self, still silent, but you could feel the low-pitch rumbling of the oncoming storm. Many bright young Chinese scientists wished to reach out to the world but to no avail. Still, they were eager to absorb every bit of information from outside the invisible great wall built by their own government. However, I did see in parks, people were definitely better dressed but still, conformity was everywhere you look. People gawked at you if you dressed differently. It was a month before June 4th, 1090, you could easily smelt the air that stirred around the nationThe sleeping dragon was about to turn over from its long snoozing. And it’s about time.1997, I flew from Taipei to Hong Kong to witness the historic handover from the UK to China. At a stroke of midnight, all cops in the street judiciously replaced their British insignia with a Chinese ones. Quite an emotional moment, although I was not sure why I should feel so. Again, was Chiang Kai-shek’s apparition at work-- the grand scheme of a united China, shedding the humilating shackles from the bygone era?2000 and on. My ageing mother asked me to accompany her to her hometown in Guangdong. I began to get to know “her”side of the families, as well as the expansive, slowly-emerging middle-class households in southern China. Among my cousins I became the focus of their intense curiosity: would I be like them had I not gone to Taiwan as a child, or would their fates be like mine, destined to roam endlessly around the world? If there was any sign of approval from them, it was manifested in their anxiousness to arrange for me to to talk to their offspring. Then, I noticed the kids in China were no different from the kids in Taiwan: they are all Internet kids, they are all Millennium kids, kids with stern defiance and with instinctive skepticism in their looks--the face of a well-off China, a face of a confident China, and a face of a daring China.I have been travelling to China almost annually since 2000. To me, China is no different from any other places in the world (for now, I purposely void the contentious work “another country”) for sight-seeing, for learning and for pleasure. China has come a long way. As a Taiwanese and an ethnical Chinese, I witnessed the most dreadful China progressing into a prosperous one. I sincerely wish China never to forget its humble past, never to wage wars it might regret in many years to come.I would also like to offer my own observations on many Taiwanese in China tending to socialize among themselves. In the 1990’s Taiwanese were the main investors in China, and the financial disparity between the to-have Taiwanese and the to-have-not Chinese worker began to form then, so was the distorted disparaging mentality of the Taiwanese. This can be compared to the not-too-distant era when westerners only fraternized among themselves in Asia. In the 1960’s when America’s 7th fleet stationed in Taiwan, US soldiers never bothered to mingle with Taiwanese except the brothel women.History changed many things. Nowadays, from what I see, as least on university campuses and in businesses, Chinese mainlanders are perceived as Taiwanese equals in their respective professional arena, Much the same, Taiwanese see eye-to-eye with their equals from the US.
I have a lot of Taiwanese friends and have lived in both the mainland and Taiwan. I would say it depends on the person but here are some comments.They think the mainlanders are rude, for example the lack of queuing and spitting in some places. Though I have to say this is less the case when they visit the opposite side of the Taiwan straight and go a city like Xiamen which has the same ethnic Minan population as Taiwan.They think certain cities are dirty and polluted.They are impressed! Very impressed in some cases. The mainland is changing so fast that old stereotypes are gradually going out of fashion. For example I know of Taiwanese friends who have visited Xiamen which is the city on the opposite side of the Taiwanese straight and feel that the city feels much more developed than a similar sized Taiwanese city with nicer buildings and a better more organised layout. The comment I got was that the whole city looks like the center of Taipei where the 101 building is.Superior, some Taiwanese I’ve met think of themselves as really ‘cool’ in comparison to the mainlanders. They think the Taiwanese have cooler music tastes and fashion. Very superficial though really and this kind of comes across as quite snobbish to be honest (sorry Taiwan friends but it does).Cheap girls! When I spoke to a Taiwanese taxi driver not so long ago he was telling me how he loved to go to the mainland because he could find cheap prostitutes there.Many feel the Chinese people are their brothers and cousins. Lots work in Shanghai now and Fujian. Many also run companies out of the mainland and the purposely set up on the mainland due to the common language and culture. They enjoy a good standard of living on the mainland too. I met a Taiwanese girl who travels between Taiwan and Xiamen on the mainland quite a bit. She was 18 and had lived in both places. I asked her if she like the mainland or Taiwan the most. I was almost certain that she would say Taiwan, but she said the mainland, times are changing.
One of my parents is a ‘Chinese born in Taiwan’ (take note of my choice of words). Whenever our family visits our relatives in China, we mingle & talk freely. Likewise when we visit our other relatives in Taiwan, we mingle & talk freely. The only difference is during our visit to Tainan (Taiwan) two years ago, I noticed getting looks from the younger folks there when my other parent was speaking in Chinese Mandarin accent in a street.I wanted to tell these onlookers that “we are all Han Chinese. We are all Chinese. If you ‘Taiwanese’ hate mainland Chinese so much, then please ask your celebrities to refrain from starring in countless China TV/drama series and movies. Stop making tonnes of money in enemies territory. Stay home with your 歐巴桑/歐吉桑 and enjoy your 便當 & 歐多拜 !”But instead, I didn’t and kept walking. I have since held a different opinion of these ‘Taiwanese’.
I would be the first to admit that I was completely and utterly shocked at how different it was.I had come to China as an American, but with my Mandarin-speaking background, I would expect something similar to what I had growing up with my Taiwanese family.Little did I know that I was dropped smack dab in the middle of a land that never emerged from the Taiping Rebellion, let alone the Cultural Revolution.I had expected the smog and the spitting. China was infamous for those.What I had not expected was the abject poverty that people lived in, the building quality that reflected such low economic status… and the cavalier (read: crass) attitude that people took with culture and human relations, stemming from that poverty.Living in Henan has scarred me, long after I have left.Nevertheless, when I found myself in such an advanced place as Chengdu, I didn’t feel like I was in China anymore. Even Guangzhou and Shanghai felt Chinese to me, even with their advanced economies. Chengdu felt cosmopolitan and friendly, especially contrasted with other places in China that felt absolutely cold.It had made me appreciate Taiwan’s qualities that much more.