
To answer this question you need to figure out the politics of Taiwan first.I'll try to keep simple.There are a variety of parties in Taiwan but you can basically classify them into two: the Green and the blue. The blue basically shows a great interest in mainland-Taiwan relationship, while the green wants to separate Taiwan from mainland China. Blue is originally from mainland China while green basically represent local Taiwan people.Now, back to 1980Before 1980, Taiwan government was dominated by the blue. It's a dictatorship.In the 1980s, China is doing reform and opening-up, transforming itself from a whatever you call it into a normal country. In 1980, China stopped the war against Taiwan. In 1987, PRC government meet Taiwan politicians, trying to build' one China, two systems'. And, yes, the blue confirmed the result of this meeting.Recent years, the Green is developing very fast. Their first intention is to fight against the dictatorship of the blue.The blue has done really bad things in the past (see February 28 Incident - Wikipedia), so the green succeeded in gathering the victims of the dictatorship and those who are dissatisfied with the corruption of the blue. However, some of them become ‘deep green’. The deep green propagates ‘China elimination', provocating a hostility towards the blue AS WELL AS mainland China, and they got lots of supporters. They established green media such as TV channel, twitter account, facebook, etc, to attract youngsters.The result is, nowadays many college students are supporters of the green. They are brainwashed by the green media, they refuse to see the development of mainland China, they have never been to mainland China, and they are hostile to mainland China.Now, examples:1: mainland tourists: hello Taiwan!Green: Get away! Chinese dogs!Mainland tourists:2: Grandfather of a green: I was born in Shanghai, I'm a Chinese.Father of a green: I was born in Taiwan, I'm a Chinese.Green: Never! I'm never a Chinese! I'm a Taiwaneeeeeese!Grandfather:3: Green media: China has no H&M.Green supporters: True.Green media: Chinese children have military training since 1 month old.Green supporters: True.Green media: Chinese are very poor, they cannot even afford to buy an egg.Green supporters: true! true! true!Mainland Chinese:See, actually, not all people from Taiwan is Green. However, if the green constantly saying ridiculous words about mainland Chinese, then it is natural that Chinese will think Taiwanese are all like these and get the conclusion:Taiwan politics is a joke.Not a native English speaker, let me know if I have grammar or spelling mistakes, thank you.
This is the result of disillusion of two narratives: one is a government-constructed narrative that only few Taiwanese want independence and the majority want reunification, and the other is a “right-wing”-constructed narrative which symbolizes Taiwan as future of China. One last factor is that many people despise pro-independence forces because of their cowardice.Before I start my argument, the caveat is that not that many people really think Taiwan as a “joke”. The majority either don’t care, or don’t know that much about Taiwan. There are also a large number of people who romanticize their imagination of Taiwan.The first disillusion is related to the government policy. Beijing officially gave up its military plan to liberate Taiwan in the late 1950s. Even though the PLA bombed Kinmen (or Quemoy) in 1958, it was more a political stance to keep Taiwan in China instead of a military plan to conquer it. Starting from late 1959, Chairman Mao and Primer Zhou brought about a series of policies toward Taiwan, summarized by Primer Zhou in 1963 as “一纲四目” (official translation not found, so I translate it as “One Principal Four Points”). The overall principal was that at the end of the day, Taiwan had to be reunified with Mainland. The four points were: 1) Taiwan could keep all rights except foreign affairs, even including keeping its military, government and rights to appoint officials; 2) Central government would pay for Taiwan’s budget deficiency (Taiwan’s budget deficiency was about USD 800M); 3) The social reform in Taiwan could wait, and would not be implemented without negotiating with Chiang Kai-shek; 4) Both sides stopped sending spies to each other, and Beijing would not change its policy as long as Taiwan kept its position on One China Policy. This was the original but more relaxed form of “One Country, Two Systems” policy. Besides, after 1959, the bombard became a regular exchange of fires, targeting mainly no-man land, and both sides usually informed the other side when and where it would bomb. In other words, it was more symbolic than a real fight.After the adoption of “Open and Reform” policy, Beijing changed its policy since late 1978, proposing a new CPC-KMT cooperation on final reunification. The starting point was that on Jan.1, the Standing Committee of National People’s Congress released a new “Letter to Taiwan Compatriots”, and the Ministry of Defense officially stopped bombing Kinmen. Taiwan leader Chiang Ching-kuo refused to talked to Mainland, but lifted the ban which forbad from veterans in Taiwan to visit their relatives in Mainland. After his death in 1988, both sides sped up the process of a direct discussion. After the pre-meeting in Hong Kong in 1992, both sides achieved a vague compromise on how to express “One China” for their domestic audience (that latter became the so-called “1992 Consensus”), which paved the way for Wang-Koo meeting in Singapore in 1993. The cross-Strait relationship was damaged by the 1995–96 Taiwan Strait Crisis and the Two-State Theory in the late 1990s, and became even worse under Chen Shui-bian’s administration in Taiwan (2000–2008), but CPC managed to start a new CPC-KMT cooperation since 2005 and pushed forward its reunification agenda towards Taiwan.During this period of time, Beijing’s main narrative on Taiwan was that only few Taiwanese wanted independence and the majority wanted reunification. It was true at the beginning, but fails to capture the development of Taiwan’s domestic changes. When United Daily News (a Taiwan newspaper) conducted its first polling on national identity (which was also the first such polling in Taiwan), 52% believed that they were “Chinese citizen,” 26% for “both Chinese and Taiwanese,” and 16% for “Only Taiwanese.” In other words, 78% believes that they would Chinese in a broader sense in 1989. However, things changed with the domestic development. The most authoritative polling on national identity in Taiwan is conducted by National Chengchi University (the link is in English: 公告：臺灣民眾臺灣人/中國人認同趨勢分佈(1992年06月~2016年06月） - 政治大學 選舉研究中心). The picture I uploaded is their latest results of polling. Readers can see that in 1992, when the first polling was conducted, 46.4% identified themselves as “both Taiwanese and Chinese”, 25.5% as “Chinese only”, and 17.6% as “Taiwan only.” However, the “Taiwanese only” increases dramatically to 59.3% in 2016, while the “Chinese only” drops to only about 3.0, and about 36.6.% for Chinese in a broader sense.The failure of the narrative to capture the new development could be attributed to two reasons. The first one is that policymakers and researchers are stuck in their old mindsets. The mainland agencies responsible for Taiwan collect enormous information on Taiwan, but the policy analysts have socialized this narrative, and this cognitive rigidity prevents them from facing the facts that KMT has lost the overwhelming support for a long time, and is moving away from its original nationalist bigger China version. The second one (some other answers mention this) is that the government intentionally limited the negative news reports on Taiwan, because Beijing needs people to keep the positive imagination of Taiwan. Otherwise, the public would either lose interests in reunification, or even worse, push government to adopt tougher policy due to the growing nationalist sentiments.The bubble collapses since more Mainlanders have a clearer idea about what is going on in Taiwan. Also, the long-time soft policies towards Taiwan is in trouble now. Both KMT and CPC was shocked by the Sunflower Movement, and the landslide defeat of KMT in local elections, both happened in 2014. CPC realized that KMT was an incapable partner, and a large number of KMT officials, legislators and affiliations benefited and making personal fortune through cross-strait economic cooperation, but criticized and blamed Mainland for Taiwan’s domestic problems to attract votes. As a result, Beijing looses its limitations on negative reports in Taiwan, so when many people see a real Taiwan, the disillusion turned to negative emotions.The second bubble is created in the public domain which outside, or under weak government control. Here I use “right-wing” in an oversimplified way to include a group of people in the public debate, who usually oppose the current political and economic system in Mainland, and promote free-market, free-press and democracy. When we talk about Taiwan, this group will also include a large number of supporters of Chinese traditional culture. For a long period of time, they portrayed Taiwan as a successful model of free-market economy, democracy in ethnic Chinese society, freedom of speech and heirs of Chinese traditional culture and customs, so it should be the model for mainland’s future. Generally speaking, this group is mainly dominated by intellectuals or public non-political figures, so it has very good writing skills and is very influential in public debate. Their description established the imagination of Taiwan for mainly Mainlanders.However, this bubble also becomes problematic when Mainlanders have more idea about the domestic situations in Taiwan, because these positive issues fail to deliver what they are supposed to deliver.Let me start from “free-press.” Chris Fuchs, a journalist from Foreign Policy who stationed in Taiwan for over ten years, published an article “Freedom, Fried - Why Taiwanese are getting fed up with the island’s salacious, in-your-face media” in Feb. 2014. The article starts with the fact that Taiwan maintains the freest television and print media in all of Asia, “But if an outsider had docked on the island in the last few months, he might be forgiven for assuming that all of Taiwan was transfixed on two major news stories: a building-sized art installation in the form of an inflatable yellow duck, which on Dec. 31, 2013, exploded in the waters off of Keelung, a city near the capital Taipei, and a mixed-race Brazilian teenager on a self-discovery tour in Taiwan who rode the metro, ate some dumplings, and, on Jan. 4, made out with a reporter almost twice his age.” The fierce competition and the public interests make Taiwanese media inward-looking, and focus on trivial day-to-day issues.For economy, Taiwan’s economy is also in trouble. On macro-level, its GDP growth rate is around 1% in each year (this year may be less than 1%), while the Mainlanders are used to double-digit growth. On micro-level, the average salary declines to the level of 2000 when the living costs increase a lot; the average salary in Shanghai and some other cities are getting close or even suppress that of Taiwan. Taiwan is losing its competitiveness of industries too. For instance, when Mainland started to develop the solar industry about ten years ago, Taiwan was the largest producer of solar penal; now, Taiwan still has over 30% global market share, while Mainlander has about 50%-60%.The largest disillusion is about Taiwan’s democracy. Other answers have touched on this issue. I am going to talk more about three elements.The first one is stupid remarks made by legislators. One example this year is that Chen Ou-po, a DPP legislator, asked National Communication Commission official that whether OPPO, a Mainland mobile phone producer, violated its right since the name of company had a similar pronunciation with his name. Other stupid remarks include the response from a former Minister of Defense in an parliamentary inquiry that Mainland had two aircraft carriers, Liaoning and Varyag, but in fact, Beijing brought Varyag and renamed it as Liaoning.The second is a weird procedure called “party negotiation.” In the Legislative Yuan (Taiwan’s legislature), every party with at least three seats can form a caucus. When a bill passes the second read, at least one party can propose the “party negotiation.” Then, the bill will go through a one-month “freezing period” when it is literally put aside, and then each party caucus can send two representatives (usually whip and another legislator in the leadership) to the party negotiation, hosted by the speaker. The result has to be a consensus of all caucus. The consensus is binding to all parties. Even though the consensus could be overturned by legislators (at least eight legislators oppose part of all of it; then a vote in the whole Legislative Yuan), it would be very difficult in practice (since the consensus is achieved by whips). The consensus-building nature of party negotiation aims to reduce power struggle, but the unexpected consequence is that minority can block any bill (even with 3 seats), no matter how many seats the majority has, if the majority follows this procedure. This makes the Legislative Yuan inefficient in most of the time, while very efficient on the last day of each session (some times they passed over 200 bills within one day). Also, this procedure sets barriers for majority rule, which is one of the core ideas of democracy.The last one is the voting behaviors. One thing is the party affiliations: in southern counties and cities, the majority of voters will vote for DPP candidates of Legislator Yuan or leaders, no matter who the candidates are. Another commonly-used strategy is appealing to party supporters, which turns technical policy debates to voting according to party-line. The third problem is “buying votes” and “building rapports.” In some areas, buying votes becomes so common that doing it will not guarantee your victory, but not doing so will guarantee your defeat. In a lecture given by a professor from National Taiwan University I attained this summer in Taiwan, he mentioned a county that voters accepted money from all candidates, and then decided who they wanted to vote for. Under this context, buying votes became a practice to show that candidates value voters. Other ridicules “building rapports” behaviors include but not limited by attending funerals, wedding and opening ceremonies of the business in the constituency, which waste valuable time for legislators to produce valuable bills in the Legislative Yuan.About Chinese traditions of good personalities, I just want to mention one case: when I was Taiwan this summer with a group of students from Mainland universities, accompanied by local Taiwanese university students, some of our group were rejected to board a bus by the driver, because “I don’t want to take anyone from Mainland.”Situations similar to what I describe above create disillusion. Don’t get me wrong: Taiwan is a strong economy (How Bad Is Taiwan's Economy?); it enjoys enormous free flow of information; its democracy is flawed but better than a lot of countries; and I have very nice Taiwanese friends. The problem is that the reality fails to meet the bubble created in the public domain: free press does not create more informative public; free-market does not raise living standard of ordinary people, and democracy does not create a perfect politics. Therefore, when former people who believe in these imagination, disillusion turns to disappointment. Moreover, these imagination is usually used as an opposite example to Mainland’s existing political and economic systems, so disillusion creates incentives for people to review their ideas on Beijing, and found that Beijing did a good job in a lot of perspectives, and their previous criticism were wrong. It also happens in the Chinese students overseas in the 1990s and 2000s, and is still happening now.One last factor is the cowardice of the general pro-independence movement. I guess this is the most important reason for a lot of people who think Taiwan is a joke. For us, we grow up in the (imagined) memory of heroic stories of revolutions, and even for a lot of people who dislike the existing party, they agree and admire the people who died for the revival of the states. In that case, we understand that there is always a price for your goal. Or, in western way, freedom is not free.However, when we look at the pro-independence movement in Taiwan, we see ridiculous argument. DPP (pro-independent party) claimed in its 1999 resolution that they would not push forward independence because it had already been a internationally recognized sovereignty state. Recent survey conducted by United Daily News this march says that only 20 percent of the respondents are willing to fight for the independence. Another survey conducted by Sinica (Taiwan’s top research institute, under the administration of its top leader) in October 2015 said that while 46.4% wanted independence, 16.1% for unification and 37.5% in the middle, 49.7% believed that unification is inevitable. Even for those who wanted independence, 37% expected inevitable unification in the future.A more academic survey conducted by Professor Chen Lu-huei at National Chengchi University and Emerson Niou at Duke University last year showed more insights (a summary of some findings, in Chinese: http://udn.com/news/story/7339/1...): of those who supported independence unconditionally, 47% didn’t believe Mainland would attack Taiwan, 70% believed that America would defend Taiwan under an attack from Mainland, and 73% believed that Taiwanese would resist; of those who supported independence under certain conditions, 28% for no Mainland attack, 62% for American intervention and 63% for resistance in Taiwan. The most hilarious results are the following: when asked about what would you do if the independence of Taiwan provoked a war, of those who supported independence unconditionally, 26% chose “go with the flow”, 26% for “joining the military for resistance”, 14% for “escaping to other countries” and 22% for no response; of those who supported independence under certain conditions, 32% for “go with the flow”, 23% for “escaping to other countries” and 20% for no response. When I asked about the implications of these results, Professor Chen said that Taiwanese dramatically underestimate the risks of independence movement.From our perspective, the situation is clear: a large number of Taiwanese, especially those pro-independence forces, either don’t understand the consequences, or don’t accept the fact even though they understand the consequences, or they don’t want to fight for it, so they hide themselves into their imagined reality, or hope to protract the process, instead of thinking about a solution.So glad that I finally finish it. I hope you find it useful.
Tsai’s government wants to import food and goods from the area still polluted by the ‘fallout’ of Fukushima nuclear reactors.DPP is considered more or less pro-Japanese party in mainland China giving how supportive DPP governments are towards Japan.A lot of ridiculous comments are made from Taiwanese news/reality shows etc. For example, the famous comment about mainland Chinese cannot afford to eat tea eggs, or another comment on PTT(a Taiwanese reddit/4chan basically) thinking the “fat dude behind” during the table tennis games in Rio Olympics are some “official who has no idea about the game” while he (Guoliang Liu) is actually the head coach and a world champion (actually we think winning the national is much harder than a world championship in China). There is also someone saying that if mainland government doesn’t pay Taiwan for blocking the typhoons, they will have to move the island.The latest I’ve heard is that a commentator saying if mainland tries to reunify by force, the PLA has to pass by Japan…Some Taiwanese have very little ideas about China other than outdated/wrong according to multiple answers written on Chinese Quora-equivalent of Zhihu by those who have exchange programs with Taiwanese university. Then they based their pride on the false information.Taiwan democracy is often laughed at also because of several brawls occurred among the lawmakers years back. But it is not really a laughing point nowadays. Mainland netizens seem to be more interested in laughing at stupid comments and how Tsai’s government doing ‘stupid things’Edit: Note that it is my personal account of what I saw/read and I tried to remove some of the personal feelings but a lot of things are really funny to meEDIT 2: Since a couple of Taiwanese says tea egg joke is outdated, I just want to clarify that it is meant to show how mainland Chinese think about Taiwanese and it will be referred to as long as mainland Chinese are still using it (recursive much). And it is not a question asking how Taiwanese think about Chinese on the other side. For a slightly more opinionated answer, see my comment below in the comment section of this question. Also, try not to flame even though it is quite hard.EDIT 3: Didn’t expect so much views…so I am gonna add this to show why stupid comments can be easily used to create a negative imageFrom a Taiwanese professor: “China is such a bully! Are you really wanting to do something? People say when you love your house, you will extend the love to the crows living under the same roof. And if you want to smack a dog, you need to see whether its master like it or not. (Both are Chinese idioms translated literally for the purpose of explaining why this is a stupid thing to say). Are you trying to attack our America? Are you trying to attack our Japan?” Are you trying to imply that Taiwan is a dog kept by Japan and the U.S. ????Subtitle: Taiwan is the ancestor of mankindthe caption next to the statue: Tiny Taiwan is the origin of 400M south island residents.This kind of pictures are quite popular on Chinese internet sites and QQ.Ya, I don’t care what you Taiwanese think about the answer by bashing me. It will just make me laugh since I basically said what the mainland Chinese think about and quoted some. If you really want an answer, I hope many of the younger Taiwanese aren’t Chinese since it brings disgrace to my culture. I am one step short of the idea of “keeping the island without people”. There was a lot of good impression about Taiwan if it is 10 or 20 years earlier, but now, it is overwhelmingly negative even for what used to be Taiwan’s stronger areas thanks for the DPP brainwashing. Anyway, turning off the comment since I think I have enough explanation. It is just some Taiwanese kids who failed their reading comprehension and cannot understand what it is to answer a question. I have quite a few Taiwanese friends who I can even discuss politics constructively and impartially. We can criticize both sides and laugh together without being ignorant since we can corroborate things easily.As for democracy, look at Tsai and her DPP and what they did after winning the election especially when it is about KMT. Guess what, even if I want to have full democracy in China and having Taiwan as an example of Chinese democracy (no, no Singapore, I don’t consider it as democratic as TW), I would be really hating on the idea now given how Taiwanese thought they have better manner.(rant over and mic drop)
Many people had high hopes for Taiwan-style democracy, including myself. Even though the CCP state media once showed the fist fightings in the Legislative Yuan, many dismissed it as propagandas from the CCP and genuinely believed that Taiwan was the beacon of Chinese democracy, that it shows democracy work with Chinese culture.However as more mainland people begin to get in touch with more Taiwanese online, reading their comments, they realized that Taiwanese online largely hold hostility towards mainlanders, which is quite the cognitive dissonance. I had used to think that since democracy promote communications and being inclusive of different opinions, Taiwanese online seems to be acting the opposite when the topic involves mainland. The stagnation of Taiwan economy was put into further contrast with mainland’s insane growth, which made many more to believe that multi-party adversarial democracy was not the only viable model for government.It is no surprise that many people consider Taiwan’s democracy as a failed experiment, since they see solid evidence for their argument.
You know, this is actually a new phenomenon. People were not like this just a few years ago, because the official narrative was tightly controlled by the authority. Politically negative comments against Taiwan were filtered quickly by online censorship.Started from 2015, political climate in Taiwan became Pro-independence, and the authorities in continental China decided to portray a real Taiwan in the official narrative, instead of that “friendly, developed, well-educated” family member of the Chinese nation.This is why those jokes can exist on the Internet in the first place.Fundamentally, this is a economic problem. Continental China is moving forward, but Taiwan is not. Taiwan’s economy is stagnating these days.Meanwhile, people living in continental China can still remember how Taiwanese looked down upon them just a decade ago, so they decided to make it even.