
When you say "never actually controlled Taiwan", you are right, but you are looking back only seven decades, because the Nationalist government retreated to Taiwan 70 years ago, and the People's Republic of China has been around for only 65 years. Seven decades, in my opinion, is a short period of time. Many of our best history books cover seven decades with one page, if not one line.  I second Feifei's point that, when people think of Taiwan as part of China, it doesn't necessarily mean the Communist Party and its current regime on the mainland. It's first and foremost the larger concept of Chinese nation, represented by sequential dynasties in the history of China for 2000 years. These dynasties, if we look back into history, did have control and rule over Taiwan, with Koxinga (aka. Zheng Chenggong as mentioned in Feifei Wang's answer) conquering the island in 1662 in the name of Ming, and later Admiral Shi Lang in 1683 in the name of Qing. The rest is history: the Republic of China (ROC) government in 1945 took over Taiwan from the hands of surrendering Japanese as the legitimate successor of Qing, and inheritor of its territories. The Communists then defeated the Nationalists in a civil war ending in 1949, resulting in the cross-strait split until this day. So I think this question really comes down to whether you consider today's People's Republic of China as the legitimate successor of the Republic of China, and as representative of the Chinese nation.  If it is, it certainly can claim territories that historically belonged to its predecessor, just like how the ROC government would lawfully reclaim what Qing conceded. Now most countries and international organizations do recognize PRC with that status. In 1971 the United Nations transferred China's permanent seat in the Security Council from the ROC to the PRC. Since then, most countries (including America of course) have established diplomatic relations with the PRC, which is now commonly referred to as China. So...P.S. I personally do not believe that Taiwan belongs to the People's Republic of China; realistically, I think the hope for a reunification in future is that the two sides would one day come to a confederation-like arrangement, whatever it's called, and collectively represent the Chinese nation.
The two statements are different.  No one believes that Taiwan should be ruled by the CCP.  Hong Kong is part of the PRC but isn't ruled by the CCP, and people are fine with that.The chain of logic is that Taiwan is part of China, and the People's Republic of China is the sole legitimate government of China.  Even in this situation, there aren't many Chinese people that I know that are hyperinsistant that the PRC is the sole legitimate government of China, and most Chinese I know don't mind the idea of Taiwan being part of a China that includes more than the PRC.  International legitimacy turns out to be important.  For large parts of 20th century Chinese history, the government of China did not in fact control large parts of China, but maintaining theoretical control turned out to be important when things changed.People care a lot about China.  People really don't care about the People's Republic of China, and I suspect that if Taiwan said "yes we want to unify, but it will be under the ROC flag", Beijing would at least give serious consideration to the proposal.  Conversely, one of the things that cause World War III is if Taiwan redefines the "Republic of China" as officially including only Taiwan.This puts me in an odd situation, because I'm a "die-hard" KMT supporter, and Mainlanders I know have essentially no political conflicts with my views than they would a Taiwan independence supporter.One irony is that the equation China=PRC tends to be advanced by Taiwanese independence supporters.  Very few mainlanders and certainly not the Chinese government insist on it.
Feifei Wang's argument has an unsolvable contradiction at its core. She says: "Taiwan, by itself, was (and still is) an insignificant small island with very limited natural resources and primitive indigenous people."She gives us a potted history of the past 400 years. Taiwan was colonised by (in turn) the Dutch, the Spanish, the Ming Chinese, then Japan. Following the Japanese defeat in WWII, the Nationalists controlled China and then - following their defeat to the Communists - retreated to Taiwan.So how does this make Taiwan part of the PRC? For the PRC claim is simply one of conquest. The same 'might is right' realpolitik that underpinned empires from Egypt to Greece to Rome; from the Mongols to China and to the European powers. It's a cynical view of the world - and I have to stay at odds with the PRC's commendable anti-colonial rhetoric in recent decades. But what it also means is that when you stop holding the territory, it's no longer yours. As a colonial invader, the PRC has no greater moral claim to Taiwan than the Dutch, Spanish or Japanese. Or the nationalist Chinese for that matter.Taiwan belongs to its "primitive" indigenous people. See Taiwanese aborigines.
Thank you for listing me as an example of an intelligent person, but you also insult me as an ignorant person who is brainwashed by the Chinese government. Without checking history, you automatically assume I take my stands on Taiwan because I was brainwashed by Chinese government instead of me doing my research and forming my own opinion. I can assure you, I'm not brainwashed at all. I know a lot about Chinese government propaganda, AND western propaganda. Oh yes, every government broadcasts propaganda. If you think your western government tells you the truth nothing but the truth, you're delusional.Now, let's talk about Taiwan history. Because China's claim to Taiwan is based on a historical claim.Taiwan, by itself, was (and still is) an insignificant small island with very limited natural resources and primitive indigenous people. Taiwan was first colonized by Dutch and Spanish colonists. Later the Ming admiral Zheng Chenggong attacked Taiwan and took the island as part of Ming Dynasty in 1662. In 1683, the entire Taiwan island became part of Qing empire, first as part of Fujian province, later as its own province. Since then Taiwan had been part of China for over three centuries until in 1895 China lost the first Sino-Japanese war, and as part of postwar repayment to Japan, Taiwan was ceded to Japan as its colony in the Treaty of Shimonoseki, an unequal treaty forced upon Qing government by Japan.If Taiwan was never part of China, how could the Qing government cede it to Japan? You can't cede an independent country to an other country. You cede your own territory to another country.After losing World War II, Japan lost Taiwan as well. And the island was returned to the Chinese government. By now, however, the people in Taiwan had become quite fond of Japan's rule and some of them weren't happy with being taken back as part of China. Partly because Taiwan being the first oversea colony of Japan, Japan wanted to set a good example for its other (possible) future colonies. Not only Japan didn't commit much mass murder like it did later in mainland China, it actually helped Taiwan with a lot of infrastructure construction, set up schools (teaching Japanese of course) and was generally quite nice to Taiwan. That's why a lot of Taiwan people had fond memories of Japan occupation even they're second class citizens. While the corruption of the new Chinese government didn't help the situation, and there're a few rebellions breaking out.After three years of civil war, Chiang Kai-shek ran and took Taiwan as its base of operation, that had started the long history of separation of Taiwan and Mainland China.As you can see, after Ming dynasty took Taiwan, and with the sole exception of Japan occupation, whatever happened in Taiwan was China's internal affairs. Taiwan has been part of China longer than US has been a country.I'm talking about solid, record history. There's nothing "propaganda" about it. China has the historical claim of Taiwan, Taiwan has always been part of China. And due to political differences between two parties, now Taiwan is an autonomous province. ROC want to be independent because nationalist party wants to hold against communist party. I could say it flamed the Taiwan independence movement. I could say Taiwan independence is a product of political propaganda. US plays a role in this political struggle because it wants to keep an foothold in Southeast Asia sea, to keep China under control. If you think US helps out Taiwan because it believe in democracy and some such idealistic crap, you're 图样图森迫 (too young too simple). Every major power involved in Taiwan issue want something of their own, it has very little to do with regular Taiwan people.When I say Taiwan belongs to China, I don't mean Taiwan belongs to the Communist Party. If you ask me, the Communist Party shouldn't own mainland China, let alone Taiwan. I believe Taiwan belongs to the political, cultural, and geographical entity known as China. If there's a political revolution and some new government has replaced the Communist Party to represent China, this new political entity (totalitarian or democratic) would inherit the claim on Taiwan.
One point to add:China has too many meanings. All educated mainland Chinese know that politically Taiwan is not part of PRC, but at the back of their mind, what they really mean, though politically incorrectly, is that Taiwan is part of Chinese Empire. Or put it more politically correct, most Chinese actually want the return of Taiwan in the same way Hong Kong did, even it has great independence, but there can be only one nation that is China.Actually I disagree with Quora User that I think 台湾是中国不可分割的一部分to Taiwan is an inseparable part of chinais more a cultural statement than a political one. So here China refers to the Greater China defined by the regions which all share the same Chinese culture. Like saying goes, two tigers cannot live in the same mountain, when CCP kicks KMT to Taiwan, the problem is between CCP and KMT under the same nation China, so Taiwan problem to mainland Chinese is an internal issue instead of external ones. I have noticed that most mainland Chinese are ignorant of perspective of Green Camp Local Taiwanese. Instead, those Patriotic educated Chinese would think those Green Campers are evil who are to fragment China like how "western force" wanted to separate Tibet from China for three reasons, language, culture and part of ignorance due to propaganda. 1.     And unlike English which is spoken all around the world, Chinese is mostly only spoken by Chinese. It made mainland Chinese tend to think all people speaking Chinese are "our people", namely Chinese, so by syllogism； Major premise: all Chinese speaking people belong to China, Minor premise: Taiwanese speaks Chinese,  Conlusions: Taiwanese belong to China so Taiwan is part of China. 2.     But the real reason for the above language intimacy is that unlike US which has only four hundred years of civilization, China has formed its defined nation Xia about four thousands ago. The ruler of the nation changes all the time, but the culture continues. It is such strong culture identification that what makes China China, not political or ethnic ones. Take Qing Dynasty for instance, few Chinese would think that is the bad time in Chinese history when china is conquered by “foreigners” because of culture assimilation. By the same token, as Taiwan is in Chinese culture, Taiwan is not foreign at all, so all mainlander would think “hey, they are our people, our brothers and sisters” why? Because, we understand each other perfectly well, we are just the same people like north and south Korea, it is the politics that hinders our unification. In Chinese, the country “国家” actually consists of two characters, the nation and the home, we just hope Taiwan come home, and this is what most mainlanders emotionally feel for Taiwan.  3.     Just like how Japan never mentioned its dirty history in Second World War to the Japanese youngster, the propaganda in China also runs in the same way that mass media can only criticize Green camp to be politically correct. And just like many people are susceptible to “religion virus” (no offence), many Chinese are not critical to doubt what they have been told or doubt the authority, to see things from Local Taiwanese perspective. It might sounds trivial on paper, but as a mainlander before I went to Taiwan by myself, I indeed never realized there are half of Taiwanese who do consider themselves islanders. Beforehand, though sounds silly, my perception for Taiwanese is that there are two types of Taiwanese, refugees of KMT or descendants of Qing dynasty citizens. Just like dating, it is very hard to know what other part really thinks and understand the perspetive from another party when you are in the date. As summary, because of Chinese culture, almost all mainland Chinese and half of Taiwanese think there can be only one unified China, regardless what this “china” refer to, whether it is one country two system (mostly likely), or KMT re-conquer mainland (impossible), there is kind of democracy among parties (almost impossible).So to answer the question, most of Chinese are not interested to let Taiwan ruled by CCP, instead, we simply have strong culture emotion for Taiwan and while ignorant that half of Taiwanese don’t like the deal.