
I have been living in China for a little over 1.5 years and I have understood much of the much secretive and claimed ‘Communist’ Political system that I have to accept, globally, people only have stereotypes about. In these 1.5 years, My most preferred ice-breaker with people I meet for the first time, is their political opinions towards the government. Sometimes, It can backfire but I have known the boundaries of its sensitivity.During my experience here, I have talked with many students, working professionals, CEOs of a few companies to even a few Baristas. One common feeling which remains same in each of these interactions is the sheer positivity towards their government.Wait, What?I have been to 20+ countries in over 5 continents and the political perception of people towards their government intrigues me. I have had such conversations with many, all over the world. But, I haven’t experienced as many people being positive about their government as in China. So, This comes as a shock to many of my friends overseas. Some, even call it brainwashing.I read more about it & I discovered that India & China are leading the Global Trust Levels in Business and Government. You can check it out HERE.In many of my conversations with my friends overseas, It is common for many of them to openly criticize their government and its policies. Most of these conversations just end with, either ‘I am sick and tired of this system’ or ‘the next government will be better’.China’s political system remains a global controversy & It was important for me to understand the reasons behind it. So, I decided to write down some of my experiences.Before, I move on, I have a disclaimer - This is a neutral perspective coming from a Global Citizen, not an individual of 1 specific country. And, I have one request, try more to understand than to be understood. For once. I did the same and have been doing the same for over 1.5 years.Last Month, I saw many of my social media feeds going viral over Donald Trump’s victory. I think the topic of ‘Our Political System :o itself, for us or for some specific people’ has become even more important and urgent topic to talk about. Against the popular perceptions, the chinese political model has taken my interest to new heights. Here are some of its highlights -ForDemocracy or No Democracy - The biggest myth of the chinese the same in many countries. The much acclaimed ‘Largest Democracy in the World’ - India, has the same system where people vote for the member of parliament who in the end choose the prime minister of the country (the equivalent of the Chinese president). The point is - It’s democracy. Yes, It can be questioned. But, on a scale of ‘Yes’ or ‘No’, it’s a ‘Yes’.its political system - ‘It’s not democracy’. Well, it’s wrong. People in China do vote for their local councillors who in the end are supposed to choose the bigger leaders in the political arena. It is true that many people don’t know about this process and how it works as the process is not transparent and some people just don’t care. It’s also true that a layman can’t vote to choose the president of the country. ButEarn a voting right - If you want to play a role in the National Politics The Communist party. It’s important to understand the ‘one party system’. People need to be a party member in order to vote for the Chinese President.party i.e. or vote for the Chinese president. Then, you have to be a Chinese Communist party member. China is a Democracy but has only oneSingle Party System - Yes, ito a single party rule. But, wait, Singapore has a Single party rule too since no other political party or coalition of parties has been successful in winning enough votes to form a government. An extremely efficient democracy based on popular perceptions. So, One party ruling the country is not unique. And, China is not an exception here.Being a party member - The next question is, how to be a party member? In order to be a party member, a person needs to be influential enough to earn a right to vote in the presidential elections. Although, the exact number remains to be a secret but I read it online that the Communist Party of China has over 87.79 Million Members (24.7% Female) till June 2016.Well, that was the Chinese Political system that I have understood till now. But the important part is, What is my opinion about it? So, here are my experiences when I talk with people about it.Democracy or No Democracy - In one of my conversations with Terry, A Bar Tender in Beijing who had won many awards for his work. He learnt Bar tending to decide the result of the elections but in reality they don’t. Look at what they did, They did Brexit and now are suffering. Democracy works in a Board Room, in an office when a company/team is deciding, basically within a group of 10 people or so, deciding something about their work since the team is supposed to work in one direction but not a country". Well, he proved me wrong in the conversation of ‘People having a say in deciding the election results’.different in reality it’s not even 0.1%. Let’s look at a UK, when I was studying there, UK has a population of 60+ million, when they vote, they think their vote will make a matters but them believe in this delusion that their vote vote making from a school in the UK. He says "'Democracy is a delusion’ because people are made to believe (by the media, current government) that they have a say in the bigger political system. But, in reality, they don’t". He gave me some data, he said "You are Indian, right? What’s India’s Population? Really big, right? How many people do you have? 1 billion or so? Tell me, how 1 person in 1 billion people can have a say in the political system which has over a billion people. You don’t. You are just made to believe and asked toEarn a voting right - In a recent conversation with one of my colleagues Charles, he said "We grow up in a world where we are told that education is everything. The higher you study the better your future is or the more successful you are going to be. Now, let’s combine democracy with it. In this case, people who have won a noble prize/ A scientist/ A person with a PHD are supposed to be the most successful people. Can you equate them with a person who never been to a school?" My answer was no. He replies "Exactly but’.democracy what happens in China". Well, he proved me wrong too in the conversation of ‘Only People make the decision in a thats that’s what democracy does. You see, everyone has only 1 Vote in a Democracy. How can we argue that a person who is not even educated will have enough decision making ability to vote for the right person. How can you treat them equal. It’s not possible. That’s why you got to earn a right to vote by proving your ability to vote andSingle Party System - In a recent conversation with Marc, one of my friends who lives in my apartment, we were talking about Brexit. He said, "Brexit is a joke. First they always a long term plan. That’s the reasons China has grown so much in the last 30 years." Well, he proved me wrong on the topic of ‘Having multiple parties in a political system’ too. a) and the new government cancels the plans of the previous government? But, In China, there is democarcy of global concept means that tomorrow it can have more space for more people. The government wants to do that. But, if there was a second political party then they will come here and not let it happen. It stops the economic growth and a country’s overall growth. What if tomorrow the government changes (referring to homeless but it because the opposition parties will lose out on their vote banks if the bill is passed. You just can’t move on in a multi-party system". He was referring to the Gun Rights Bill in the US House. "Look at a China, you see that building (referring to a 45 floor building from the window), tomorrow you may see a higher building there. That higher building doesn’t mean that the people living there are now going to be enough but things will move on, and won’t be stopped. Look at the US, the government works for years and years to make a bill and then the opposition party rejects it. Not because the bill wasn’t good Atleast voted and then they realized, Oops, we did wrong. Now, can we vote again?" He was referring to the survey of more than 50% of people wanting to vote again on Brexit, in the UK. He went on saying "If there is one party then they will do what they think is right. Plus, there is nobody else to oppose it.Being a Party Member - During a casual meet up with some of my friends from the previous company I used to work for, they started talking about one of our colleagues who recently became a Chinese Communist Party Member. I asked "Isn’t it unfair that only limited people have a right to vote?" Well, that turned out to be a trigger to have a 3 hours long conversation. I asked them, how do you exactly become a party member? One of them replies,For some reason, Quora Editor gives me problems to write long answers. You can check the original post here - https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/w...
This is just a stream of thought response based on my experiences this summer. I had a great time, but I like to analyze things and was actively looking for differences.I traveled to Nanjing this summer and stayed for just short of a month. Other than finding the humidity unbearable, I was fascinated by the mix of old world culture and futuristic society. In some ways with the street vendors and the open markets I felt like I was back in the 17th century, but everyone has smart phones.Most of the buildings are new, but not well maintained (except for the nice shiny downtown). Kids played outside like I did backin the 1980s. Everyone where t shirts with English writing on them which they probably don’t understand.The more urban centers feel like something out of minority report or blade runner but with less dystopia and much more materialism. Capitalism is the name of the game here. From the street side food sellers to of course the large enterprises. The worst service came from state controlled places, everyone else was always eager to get the sale no matter what.The pollution wasn’t as terrible as I had expected, but I’m sure it has been worse. There are no rules of the road, at least not enforced - and the right of way goes to cars, the Scooters, then bicycles, and finally pedestrians. But at least they warn you. I haven’t decided if that chaos results in better drivers or worse, but I decided it was safest to look in all directions everywhere when walking because the sidewalks are as likely to have scooters as the bike lanes (much bigger and separated from the main road).Where I was, I might not see another white person for days. I was quite conscious of it. It was intimidating and exhilarating, everyone tried to say hello in English, several times they wanted to get a photograph with me.Law enforcement was very local and comment, but felt more like unarmed security guards. Not intimidating and generally let everyone mind there own business - not authoritarian at all. I did see some police or guards with AK-47s, but that was only once.Public transit was amazing - buses, subways, trains. Easy to use, frequent and though crowded, they seemed the best way to get around.the shear number of KFC restaurants. The Chinese love their fried chicken. Starbucks is common too, but just as expensive as in the US. Most of the restaurants are local mom and pa shops. i was aware the food in China is nothing like the Chinese food in the west. I think I had more tofu than rice. It was good, but my western stomachs could not tolerate the idea of tripe.As for food - most of it is fresh. Even Walmart had live animals (fish, frogs）that you can buy for food. Drinks are room temperature or warmer, it is looked at as being barbaric and unhealthy to drink cold drinks by most people I encountered. The cold soft drinks were still warm for my taste. Chocolate is very limited - mostly just snickers bars.Shopping in malls was similar to America, but there is way more staff. It is like it was before the vast cuts for efficiency in the 80s. The prosperity is very visible. The way things are sold is different. Groceries that are sold by weight are weighed at one of the many stations in the store, instead of the til. Buying clothing didn’t seem so different. At least they were air conditioned. 38 degrees Celsius and 85 percent humidity are not pleasant for a Canadian such as myself. Interestingly enough, when entering these AC palaces of survival, the doors are large thing plastic strips that you just separate like vertical blinds.Of course you can’t visit a city in China without talking about the crowds. Yes it is crowded, but where I was it was never such that I was frustrated. Also, being taller than most people, I could easily see over everyone's heads. There is a very obvious difference between younger generation that have only know prosperity - more western in appearance, more materialistic, willing to hold hands, than with the older generations who grew up in villages and received little education. Their appearance and health seems very different. One beggar women actually grabbed my arm aggressively expecting money. Violently. It was weird.Anyone who could afford to buy a home several years ago when they were dirt cheap, may own several now - and they sell for a huge amount. There is a lot of hidden wealth - it was like what I would have expected from the gold rush days.There are so many more things. It was my first chance to travel overseas. I plan on going back. The people were nice, the speech does sound aggressive - it is not, just the nature of the language sound. I went out for dinner with others often and they were all exceptionally accommodating and friendly. Oh yeah, and Canadian dollars go really far there. 30 dollars got three of us a nice dinner in a decent restaurant in downtown Shanghai.I definitely noticed a more pronounced class-ism though. Not by culture or race, but on education and family status. It seemed heavily ingrained in the culture - a certain disrespect for those of lower education such as farmers or vendors. It’s probably changing - some of those old farmers are pretty wealthy - sold their farms for a lot, and now just sell watermelons. Oh yeah, so many watermelons. Cheap, delicious. Mmmm. Stinky Tofu - smells like shit - tastes great.I felt much safer there than anywhere else I have lived. At night, I never felt like that shady person was planning on stealing my wallet, or going to rob me. Their just seems to be less desperation, and harmony is a strong part of the culture. There were some places that had a bit more of a slum like feel, but not so intimidating as Hastings in Vancouver.Though there is plenty more, I will leave by mentioning the great firewall. It was annoying. The people there are well aware of it. They do complain. They complain about the government openly. They have as many beefs as we in the west, but the tremendous growth in prosperity and the culture gives them less incentive to put up a fight. There is definitely propaganda. On the level of nationalism we see in the US. They think they know about the outside world as well as most Americans who haven’t traveled abroad think they do. Their knowledge is just as incorrect. They know about Mao’s Great Leap Forward, Cultural revolution, Tienanmen, but don’t bring it up, and some thought it was all justified, others think it was terrible, and destroyed much of their heritage. If anything - in Nanjing, people really don’t like the Japanese government, and I can’t blame them considering what happened.That’s enough.(edited for spelling mistakes - I typed the entire thing on my ipad ugh)
Author with the statue of well known artist in the West Lake, Hangzhou, ChinaBackground: I am Canadian citizen and soon in a few years it be close to 50 years in this country, I am from the east Indian heritage. I have had worked in the Canadian dairy/food/flavor industry from managerial to executive positions. I had a good run in this profession for about 30 years and took very early retirement to chase my own dream in another line of work and it has been 15 years and hopefully I keep counting for a long time.In addition I have two master’s degrees one from u of Punjab India in dairy science and the other from u of Guelph Canada, in food science.My Chinese connection: I was born in a small town in Indian region of Punjab, our primary school teacher used to tell us that our neighbor China is very civilized country, in fact when most of the world was living in caves they were studying astronomy. They invented several things which contributed to the advancement of the world.This fired my brain (imagination) and sowed the seed about China/Chinese, also being Indian due to Buddhism and neighbor we saw China very friendly and very good country in the mid 50s. Our relationship with China became sour after 1962 conflict, and China then was very closed country, visa was impossible, and travelling from India was not a joke though my family was reasonably okay. Regardless, my teacher described the word picture and from a tender age of 5 used to imagine the beauty and very nice country of our neighbors.Then I migrated to Canada, but my dream did not die, and then in Canada I had nothing but positive interactions with Chinese, as my professors, class mates, coworkers, neighbors, friends, reports and now business dealings.Finally I made my first and then second trip and now several are in the planning to go back to China. My ultimate goal is to see/explore this country from one end to the other, so far my health allows it, I want to keep exploring this great country,civilization and people.I am very thankful to Chinese authorities to give 10 years visa without any restriction on visits, with maximum stay of 6 months. My Canadian citizenship might have helped to grant such a nice visa, also my Nexus status might have contributed to positive decision.I am law abiding citizen: when in Rome do as Romans do, I am standing, in Tienanmen square, however I was very scared I had heard that security is very tight in there. Regardless, I was free to move around with total freedom. No one bothered me, and I had very nice visit to the Forbidden City.Now the answer to the Question: Simply breath taking beautiful, unbelievable mega country with no substitute on the earth for me. Salute to China and Chinese for such a huge leap. It is totally different what media had played and the impression people have, in my books not even close what so ever. I am no fear to go back again and again, and even live there. My teacher 60 years ago or so was not wrong, he was in fact very conservative, in firing my imagination of this great country.I started with very positive attitude towards China and Chinese, and I was totally blown away the with greatness, politeness, cleanliness, discipline, personal safety, law and order and shear grandeur of land mass and huge population. I already had in my mind but after the visit I am 100 percent decided that my grand kids must learn Mandarin, visit the country several times, and see the length, breadth and height of this continued civilization of over 5000 years. They must learn from it all positive things of hard work, discipline, fine arts, architecture, above all one of the best food in the world. One life may not be enough to try all the cuisine, variety and food culture of China, therefore they should start very early. What more tribute I can give to this great country and people that I wanted to enroll my American born grand kids, with endless choices to live and study anywhere they want, but if I had a say, I want them to go to school in China at least for a few years, where they must learn first hand, what is called hard work and studies, and ying yang of the proper balance in life.Sure China/Chinese have problems but who does not?Sure China has mega problems which country does not but I am very sure China/Chinese have a long history fighting and solving their problems, they have resilience and come through. I know I know I know, I will hear ‘ freedom of speech, slave labor, poor quality, pollution, still lot of poverty, dirty wash rooms, people spitting on the road, ……………………………….this list goes on….. sorry not to mention Google and Facebook, are not available there, but they will just fine without those two luxuries in life, I learned to live without it, and did just fine….well may be a little withdrawal symptoms in the beginning and got over it. Well, Beijing roasted duck and dim sum helped a lot sooth that pain.Please let us check our own back yard first are we as squeaky clean as we portray?My answer to all those : I have lived here in the west soon it be 50 years, and let us check our own back yard, in my view we will find lot of things which are not as glorious as we portray.China has seen lot of ups and downs, such as Mongolian and Manchurian regimes, some of the modern time injustices which included, physical , financial, respect, and humiliation and lose lot of wealth, it is called 100 years of humiliation which included losing HK, opium wars, favorable settlement to other countries , after the fall of The Last Emperor, one visit to Nanjing museum will open your eyes. Well guys now the Dragon is wake and it is not imaginary anymore, as Phoenix has risen from ashes. Say Hello(nihoma) to the new very powerful guy on the street in modern times, he was very powerful in the ancient time, but he is back now.We could think about poverty, slums, homelessness, corruption, frauds, drive by shooting, drugs, sex scandals, and the list goes on,………in the west also. Is democracy that great…….really ?? if it is, the question should be: will it work for massive country in land mass and population in China? let the political pundits decide….I may have my ideas…..but they are not qualified.A word of caution to myself:I decided long time ago, that I will look only positive things in people, living and non living things, write about it so that I may leave some legacy for my grand kids, or who so ever find some merit in it.You want to visit China : please go with very positive attitude, leave the pre conceived ideas in your own country and you will only see beauty in everything (well almost in everything), but no one is perfect, let us say “ Glass is more full than empty) and as the old saying goes wear green glasses you will see everything green.Now let us start with changed impressions after the visit one by one:China is very safe country:After the visit/s based on my observations, experience, and confirmation by my host who is born and brought up Suzhou guy, China is literally free of violent crimes, petty thefts and other low level crimes may be there but I was not too concerned. I saw young girls working in the night shifts by themselves, and walking freely in the middle of night to their home/or night shifts, travelling in the public transports.Women are power houses working shoulder to shoulder with men:I have seen women involved in every walk of life, they are handling the baby in the crib and watching the small shop/stall at the same time with flare, grace and politeness. Bargaining like a very wise small business person, at the airport they are sitting at customs, immigration and other official duties, handling the business without getting flustered with total politeness and respect. To me it looked like most likely Chinese respect their women from heart, I did not see any sign of disrespect or looks. I saw hundreds of school girls dressed in school dresses with load of books on their back more heavy than their tiny body’s could carry, showed me that Chinese are very supportive of their daughters for going to school. In my view China has become so powerful because the women are sharing heavy burden of house hold and outside jobs.Very healthy, smartly dressed teenage school girls, enjoying equal opportunities to get education.Tiny adorable kids have equal opportunities to enjoy field trips and educationWomen working shoulder to shoulder with men in every walks of life,Women are power houses in China, they are working shoulder to shoulder with men.Women are power houses they seem to be very hard working and productive in the progress of China.Once you visit China you realize it is not homogeneous country:No all Chinese are not same, there are 56 recognized minorities with their own culture and main majority is called Huns, they make 90 percent but there there are further classifications.Bravo, still they all live in relative harmony ( at least I have not heard, any mass scale and riots), Sure there may be some issues with some ethnic groups, and I under no circumstances will make a comment, because I do not have any real knowledge of the issues, or qualification to say.I visited famous Muslim Quarters in Xian and found hustle bustle and tremendous amount of life.Author and his wife Sue visited world famous Muslim Quarters in Xian they found the market very nice, tourists and locals were shopping and eating and walking through the streets. These muslims are settled in the area for about 1000 years,Bravo Chinese and China. These Muslim Chinese are called Hue people of China.Muslim Quarters or Street as it is called, in fact there may 100s or 1000s of restaurants and snack shopsWorld famous Muslim Quarters.It is not Beijing and it not Shanghai, the biggest city in China, it is Breath taking city Chongqing, I found out on this trip, it has over 30 million people.Breath taking Chongqing, sky line, Yangtze River flow with all its might.Author with his wife enjoying a moment of Chongqing beauty.Chinese natural beauty can knock as they say anyone’s socks off ( at least they did mine) some of the natural beauty will stay with me for ever: Part 1, as we go I will post more spell bound places.Here are some natural beauty of this country:Following three pictures are taken by the author on the Coast line of Yangtze river between Chongqing and Shanghai.Who Says Chinese do not smile, that is a myth, when you go there you will find they are real people ( well almost all of them) they smile a lot.I know this is very sensitive topic to discuss, but for me it is very important to shed more light on this misconception, Religion in China.I have heard before going to China, that most of the Chinese are atheists, well I was pleasantly surprised, in fact most of the Chinese have found real meaning of the religion and God, because most of them talk about Karma, reincarnation, honesty, hard work, no theft, family values and good deeds. To me they found the ultimate truth they do not have to go any religious place to learn anymore.However what I saw the devotion of some devotees in Buddhist temples it knocked me over, I will not be the same.Here are some pictures of Grand Buddha of Ling Shan, this is 88 meter Buddha statue the largest statue of my lord, and other is bathing of baby Buddha ceremony, I never ever seen anything like this, I and my wife sue visited this temple two times still not enough, I could stay there for ever.Grand Buddha and Baby Buddha of Ling ShanUltra modern state of the art mass transportation at reasonable prices.I never ever realized length breadth of their subway systems in Shanghai subway lines are becoming world model, and who can compete with this monster speed of 431 Km/hr. Here pictures of this train, which covers 30 km in 8 minutes at a reasonable price, these are real pictures taken by my wife Sue and I in Shanghai.China’s pride and joy, Maglev train, which attains maximum speed of 431 km/hour and covers 30 km in 8 minutes down town Shanghai to the airport. Well done China/Chinese, fastest train in the world.Chinese love and affinity for gardens, beautiful landscapes, greenery, water falls, lakes , lush trees and tranquility, are praise worthy, and I learned lot of lessons.The west lake Hangzhou,The country is humming with manufacturing activity and as you see ship loads of finished products, raw material traffic, produce and other goods are moving.A great lesson for me in the hard work, devotion and determination.Ship load of new cars being transported via Yangtze River.Truck and trailers are humming the national highways with raw, finished and produce through ultra modern highways and toll booths.Chinese have total mastery of foods, they know arts, science and business end of the food industry ( in my view Chinese did to food industry what Henry Ford did to Auto industry)Chinese have now the world monopoly of this industry, they have cut down lot of middle men which is a major factor to cut down the cost of prepared food that it does not make sense to cook at home any more. Chinese food has taken over the world by storm, reasons fast/hot/relatively healthy/ meet every pocket from man in the street to the emperor/queen of a country,.When in China you will never go hungry, there is food for every one with a few yuan in his/her pocket, Chinese can feed an emperor/queen and man in the street with a few yuan in his/her pocket. If you are hungry in China is has to an extreme bad luck.Following is a snap shot of some of the places where author and his lovely wife ate, including sitting on the streets of Beijing/Shanghai/Xian and eating it some of the most delicious foods in the world.Chinese street food has mind boggling choices, Chinese food vendors are hustlers ( in a good way) they are determined to make you buy their food.China was the world leader and in my view will stay world leader in Silk production for ever:Chinese history proves it China was the world leader in silk production and that is why ancient Silk Route was developed, after these visits in my mind China will keep this monopoly for ever.Here are some pictures of some steps to Silk production and show room.Some steps to produce world class silk in China, silk worms feeding on mulberry leaves.Silk CocoonsSilk show room in BeijingIn my view most of the Chinese people are very hard working, strong will to live, and I strongly believe, they have found true God through Karma.Here are some pictures of their resilience, will power, most of them very happy, content with cards fate dealt them and they have found true happiness of contentment. This motivated me to work more harder and it recharged my batteries.Rather than bitching, complaining, and finding bad ways to make a living, these are the true “ Karam Yogis and Yoginis” which my scripture described in the holy book of The Gita, (Hinduism) FYI, Buddhism is off shoot of Hinduism. Lord Buddha was born Hindu Prince. I saw that spirit where ever I traveled, great work ethics in their blood per sure ( for most of them, exceptions are and will be there)I observed that most of the Chinese people are very physically active, and in good physical shape.One of the most impressive things was their dances, in the parks, and I believe it is a good exercise, socializing and getting out your stress.These are my general observation, Chinese people are very proud, some may have physical handicap but their self pride is in tact,Following two pictures are great source of inspiration to me, I class them entertainers and not beggars, they my personal inspiration. Bravo hats off to your dignity , pride and this will linger in my mind for ever.Chinese people are too proud to beg, they may have physical handicap but they spirit and dignity is in tact. I do not class him beggar, I class him, an entertainer, and my inspiration.Chinese people are too proud to beg, they may have physical handicap but they spirit and dignity is in tact. I do not class him beggar, I class him, an entertainer, and my inspiration.Chinese seniors are respected and taken good care off, most of them will die in the arms of a grand son/daughter or loving son/daughter/daughter in law.Stay tuned more to come until then : Ding ding ho,
The more I learn about China, the more I realize I don’t know and never will know. That being said, I still have a clearer insight on life in China than I did when I first got here three year ago.Chinese LanguageEverywhere you travel, the dialect is different. While the nation shares a common written language, there is a huge disconnect with spoken language among all Chinese. Every province, and in some circumstances even every city, has its own spoken dialect. The only way for some Chinese to communicate is through written communication since they often don’t understand each others‘ Chinese. That’s why there’s a need for Mandarin (普通话)—a standard language that unifies all of China.As a foreigner in China, Chinese people don’t expect you to be able to speak Chinese. Of course, if you do speak Chinese, even just a bit, they’ll be elated to hear that you’re making an effort to learn about and integrate into Chinese culture. Study for a little while and you’ll blow the minds of locals, especially in smaller and rural areas. It’s quite fun to have a conversation with an older Chinese man or woman because they seem so stoked to be speaking with a 老外.DrivingAt first when I arrived in China the driving looked like absolute chaos. It still does, but I’m not surprised by anything anymore. Driving on the wrong side of the road in front of police officers, making U-turns right when oncoming traffic is heading your way, changing lanes without looking or signaling. It’s all the norm, so other drivers know to look out for it.People use their horns liberally, and nobody gets easily offended by anything. In the States, people take driving way too personally. Chinese drive slowly, but they cut everybody off and honk at each other and nobody thinks twice about it. If someone cuts you off, it’s not their fault; it’s your fault. You allowed enough space in front of you for them to pass. That’s the driving mentality. Everyone plays by the same messy rules, so it works out.FoodDon’t be afraid to try street food. I’ve eaten tons of Chinese street food and I haven’t fallen ill. The only time I got sick was when I accidentally drank tap water, resulting in a two day fit of explosive diarrhea.Seriously though, eating the food of this country is one of the best parts of the immersion here. If you miss out on that, you’re missing out on an integral part of what it means to visit or live in China. There is so much variety in the food that I miss it so badly when I leave this country.Jaded ForeignersSad to say, but many foreigners who visit China don’t really like Chinese food, complain about air pollution, blab about ways that the west is way better at this and that, etc. The expat community here is a bit jaded, especially the ones who’ve been here for a few years or more. My advice: don’t listen to foreigners who moan about China; they’re just dealing with some internal personal issues in the wrong way, by taking it out on the Middle Kingdom.ConclusionThese are just my opinions. I’m not an expert. I’m just a guy who lives here. Thanks for reading.
Oh boy ! This question is special.Even before visiting china, I knew China wasn't just a suppressive communist regime with child labours in giant factories. But the media wouldn't portray it otherwise.It took a lot many trips to the embassy to get me a travel visa but every single trip was worth it.And here's a little secret the Chinese wouldn't let you in on.“It's the most beautiful country in the world”It surprises me is how little they promote tourism internationally. All one pictures of when thinking of China is the Great Wall or the Terracotta Army. But guess what, I didn't visit either. All the places I’d been to were full of domestic tourists and I stuck out like the odd one almost everywhere. (I'm not complaining though, but more in that later) I only got a month’s single visit visa. And I spent all of it in the southern part of China. So let me give you a brief account of my amazing experience in this mystical country.PEOPLE:Just mentioning that people are kind would be such a gross understatement. People are very warm and always greet you with a smile (Not just the formal touristic greet but the genuine humble smile)I was always short for change while traveling and there wasn't once an occasion when some passerby didn't pause to help me. And the help wasn't just instructional or with giving me a change. A lot many of them just put their money, got me a ticket, handed it to me and left with a smile.I didn't have the change to get into a bus in Guangzhou once and was putting in 10 yuan instead but the bus driver stopped me and put in his own money instead, asked me to just settle down.When I was Changsha, I didn't know the metro route and was struggling to figure out with the route map. A woman hurriedly came to me and asked her young son to help me out. He was a school student, probably still learning English. With the little that he could, he stood there, looking into my Apple Maps travel route suggestion and keyed in those details into his phone and started searching. It took him a good 10 minutes to help me sort out the route but he made sure (despite the language barrier) that I got the travel route right. When they proceeded to leave, the mother gripped her son’s shoulder as a sign of appreciation for his help. I could see the humility in her eyes and I couldn't have been more humbled by her gesture.I went to a makeshift food outlet in Shenzhen run by a family (the family probably lived in the establishment) simply coz they endorsed “Halal” on their board. It was a Friday afternoon and I could bravely order a beef stew. The order ran up to 30 yuan. While I waited for my order, the chef pointed her children to say ‘Assalamualikum’ (Muslim greeting) to me. I found this amusing as the kids looked at me with a gaze and surprise and anguish. I extended my hand to greet them and they reluctantly did. Although there were no grounds of communication, I improvised on Google translate and had a good conversation with them. They were Hui Muslim family running a makeshift restaurant. The women ran the kitchen while the men waited and kept the books.After our talk, I wanted to tip big and pulled out my wallet to pay. But they flatly refused. They said, it being a Friday, they wanted to do me good as I'm far away from home. Their gesture moved me.I pulled out my wallet and hurriedly handed the kid a 20 Kuwaiti dinar bill. I told them it would be a memorabilia from a visitor and I'd always remember them in my prayers. Looking at the small designation bill, they didn't protest much. (Little did they know!)There are several other P2P stories about how awesome Chinese are to their guests but I guess you get the picture.NOTE: The Chinese police deserve a special mention as they're the warmest towards a foreigner while being dead strict against their own citizens. (Had a first hand experience when I jaywalked on a busy road)So, if you're planning on visiting China, expect the warmest of people there and keep your heart open.Here are a few pictures for a good measure.We became good friends (coz he spoke English) and I kinda would've been lost in Zhangjiajie without him. He explained a lot of historical and cultural facts from here which otherwise would've lost on me. The tourist guides make shit up (his words not mine!) and he gave me a detailed account of the area’s geography.This woman was delighted to see a ‘black guy’ amidst the mix and just wanted to click a picture for memories. I can't even remember the number of times people walked up to me asking to click pictures (felt like a celebrity !!!)Well, that was about some of the people. Now let's get down to the one thing that caught me by surprise.FOODBeing a Muslim, I had very few culinary options, although there's no complaining about the wide variety of food this country has to offer. Then, being an Indian I'm too spoilt for food options but over here, they were a step ahead of us.Special mention for the Hunanese (Boy ! Don't they cook amazing food) cuisine.I couldn't have asked for better food than what I got in China. Even though I had to stick to fish and prawns, I'd indulge in other food as soon as I could find a restaurant serving Halal food.Hunanese Fish.Dried fishes. (It was quite spicy)Cold Mutton pieces with peanuts? (I’m sorry I forgot the name of the dish)Sichuanese Mutton Pot (with sprouts and a ton of other spices. I guess they had some bamboo in there as well)Spicy Crab (There's no civilised way of eating this. My hands were dirty as I crushed the crustacean in my mouth and my nose ran like flowing river coz of the spices. With my mouth and nose dribbling with juices, I gobbled every last bit of it)Mouth watering anyone ?Alright, here, how about I give you some street food !!!Quail eggs !!!Oysters !!!Crab!I wish I could taste the deer kebabs and I had a strong craving for Yak burgers but my religious duties held me back.NOTE: Chinese fruits deserve a special mention here. Fruits in China are the cheapest in the world. I mean, 2 yuan for a kilo of apple cheap. If you're into fruits, your daily food expenses would drop drastically.So, that was about the food. Let me fill you in on another important factor. And I guess this is probably one aspect the Chinese are leaps and bounds ahead of the rest of the world.INFRASTRUCTURE AND ENGINEERINGSo, you know most of the stuff that you buy comes from China. Well, ‘cheap’ isn't the only reason that companies flock there. There's incredible innovation in Chinese society even for the most basic of tasks.Specially their Civil Engineering accomplishments. They've built some of the most amazing dams, star gazing structures, bridges, aquariums, Opera House, Temples, Tall buildings, water canals - You name it.And then you have the Infrastructure. The infrastructure is second to none in the world. I was amazed at the number of bullet trains they run, their precision, punctuality and over all service.The overnight trains too are almost always on time. Are clean, well ventilated and are damn cheap. (Europe could take some lessons here)Edit: This is going to be a lengthy answer I started writing on a whim. Need more time to frame it well. (Thanks for the appreciation in the meantime)
I have been in Beijing for more than 15 years and not once have I felt threatened in any way. Beijing have always been a safe place from my perspective. One thing that I have come to understand is that if you are a foreigner/expat in China, most locals are nice and helpful both in big cities and small towns as well. Generally, rural China is considered safe by many Chinese. Big cities, especially Beijing and Shanghai- have their headaches - pick-pocketing mostly, but generally safe. Guandong province is notoriously known for its not-so-safe problems (Police pledge to fight gangs in Guangzhou's townships and villages). The hotbed of identity theft, bank card hacking and copying is probably in Dongguan city also in Guangzhou.I once got my passport stolen in Shenzhen (in 2001) when dropping off the airport bus. In those days, the stops for airport buses were not regulated at all. The moment you drop-off, you get this crowd of teenagers swarming towards you with business cards and at the same time feeling your pockets for any thing they can steal. They won't harm you. Luckily for me, they only wanted cash to hand back my passport. I gave them 300 yuan! Today, the airport bus stops are pretty much safer than they were before in Shenzhen.It is refreshing to note that most of these incidences hardly involve foreigners and hence we feel very safe. Guns are very hard to obtain in China so the weapons of choice are knives, swords or cleavers. The government is cracking on these items as well. One thing I gather from my experience here in China is that Chinese are extremely safety oriented. Almost all doors in virtually all apartments are security doors (they call them "burglar-resisting doors") - doors a locked consistently. Most, if not all, communities are gated with security personnel around the clock and only one or less than three points of entry and exit. Incidents of some psychos, driving through kindergartens and schools, chopping kids with swords and knives have created walled schools with no more than two points of entry/exit. At public and even private establishments rarely would you find people leaving their stuff around unattended even for a quick washroom trip. Passwords are entered after looking around and with one hand blocking the view of anyone to the number pad. People are reminded of being safe on almost every opportunity: TV stations, radios, banks, communities, markets, hospitals, ATM locales (sometimes with loud annoying speakers), and LED boards are full of warnings advising people to be aware of their belongings, bank cards, locking doors and windows etc. Posters of recent robbery are distributed (locally and very discreet, if my Chinese was not good enough I will probably not notice) to warn people and to prevent recurrences. Cars are locked consistently with double checking. I was surprised when one of my neighbors kept accompanying her son to a school that was  hardly 300 meters away. When asked, she replied it was for safety reasons (apparently another kid disappeared, mysteriously, in the same area some weeks ago). There are many in China who share her reasons.Having said that, it is still common to hear few incidents of people being robbed, mugged and even murdered. Still it is safe to say that China is generally safe for expats/foreigners.  Just don't work, shop, dine or drive in any Japanese branded company, shop, restaurant/hotel or car when the two countries are having tensions (China protests over Japanese activists' visit to disputed island )!
Here is a List of countries by intentional homicide rate.It shows that China has the 27th lowest murder rate in all 218 countries and regions. And if you take a look at the 26 ahead of China, you'll find most of them are very small countries and cities like Hong Kong, Singapore. Japan is really safer that China. I've been to Tokyo. It really feels safe to walk on the streets even in the mid night. Murder rate in US is 4.7, while the rate in China is 1.0. I've been to LA and NYC. There are so few people except in Manhattan, so I have to look back and keep aware of all around when walking on the lonely streets. Once I was in the metro in LA at about lunch time, a black young man suddenly kept shouting angrily at me. I didn't quite understand what the hell he was talking, but some "fuck... Chinese... fuck"things. So I had to get off the train and take the next one. But I do like San Diego, it's miles more beautiful and people there are more friendly.However, as China is really big and has a huge and complicated population  with 55 minority nationalities, crime rates differs in regions in China. It is commonly believed that:the south is generally safer than the north. among the top10 biggest cities, Guangzhou and Shenzhen are less safer. Shanghai may be the safest.  Yangtze River Delta is the richest, humble and well-tempered region in China. You can only see two guys in Shanghai or Hangzhou quarreling, but they rarely fight. However, people  from the northeast are more likely to solve problems with fists.Sinkiang is the only dangerous province, especially in southern Sinkiang.Some places in the poor and less educated rural areas are not safe. They'll not kill you, but they may steal, rob or extort. For example, some guys may suddenly jump out in front of your car, lay down and than several other gangsters will surrender you extort some $2000 for medical treatment. Of course, the price is negotiable. But if you have less than $100, they may get really angry and give you a good beating. So it'll be wise to always have some $200 cash in your pocket.If you are an expat, you'll surely be safer.  The gangsters know  foreigners have little cash, because you guys always use credit cards. And if they hurt a foreigner, they'll be punished more seriously by the law. So  foreign guys are really not cost-effective to commit a crime on.For girls. I must say that you really have bigger boob power than most Chinese girls. So be a little low-key, if you are alone out there in byways at night or on a crowded metro train. Rapes are very few in cities, but you may be indecently assaulted or sexually harassed.
I’ve written before about why China is safe for travelers and why anyone concerned about visiting should let those inhibitions go. In terms of violent crime, you have little to worry about in China. In terms of theft, just be smart. I’ve never been pick-pocketed myself, but it does happen. If you have a backpack, wear it in the front of your body when you’re on public transportation.Be minimal. I suggest a money clip and using plastic as much as possible. You won’t have any noticeable wallet bulge in your pants if you do things this way. And hold tight to your phone. To avoid scams, don’t talk to strangers who approach you first speaking broken English, especially in shopping districts or spaces that attract a lot of tourists. If someone comes up to you, especially if you’re a man, just keep moving and don’t make eye contact. It might seem rude, but it’s fine and they’ll go away eventually. This is all minor stuff, so don’t be frightened.I teach travel Chinese to people planning to visit China, and there are three other safety concerns I do remind them of before they visit.The first is traffic safety. Though traffic law enforcement is improving in big cities, it’s important that you understand that in China, pedestrians are not treated with the same respect as they might be in your home country. Here are some tips:Under no circumstances should you assume a car is going to stop for you if you are walking in the street, even if the light is green for pedestrians.Remember to look both ways before crossing a road, and to continue looking as you cross. Look out for people making left turns too.The same is true when you’re dealing with cyclists or people on scooters—they probably aren’t going to stop if they’re already in motion, and they frequently ignore traffic lights altogether. You’ll see people riding their bikes and scooters on sidewalks too, so keep your eyes open even when you’re not in the street.Don’t walk around looking at your cell phone.The second is food safety. China also has a less-than-stellar record when it comes to food safety. Tips:Though it may be tempting, I discourage you from eating street food, as there is a chance the food is being prepared with unsafe ingredients, the most common of which is recycled oil.When eating in China, stick to restaurants that are well trafficked or well reviewed. That doesn’t mean you should stick to Western restaurants, it just means going to places that have a lot of visitors.That said, don’t let worries prevent you from enjoying Chinese food, as it’s one of the best parts of the country (here are my favorite Chinese cuisines)! Be wise and be judicious.Take risks in trying new foods, but understand that if you eat something unclean, you might get sick. In most cases, take the risk because it’s worth it and you’ll be fine.Bring medication in case you do fall ill.Never drink water from the tap unless it’s been boiled. Restaurants will not serve you water that’s not been purified through boiling or other means, so don’t worry about drinking water in restaurants!And there is no such thing as fake bottled water. If it’s in a bottle and the top is sealed, you’re good to go.If you’re visiting for a short time, I suggest following my advice on food strictly to avoid getting sick and wasting time. If you’re staying longer, you can and should relax things and try to live more like a local.Finally, there’s air pollution. Air pollution is simply a part of life in China. There is no way to avoid it. This is something many foreigners worry about before visiting, but my suggestion is that unless you have a condition, try not to think about it. From what I’ve seen, most foreigners do not have any problems when they come, but some do cough for a little while. Understand that since you’re probably only visiting, you won’t be doing any lasting damage to your body by breathing normally while you’re here. I think wearing a mask is overkill unless you’re exercising, but it’s a personal decision.Generally, you should not have any worries traveling in China. Have a safe trip!
China is incredibly safe! I am a Mandarin Chinese teacher of 8 years and sometimes I feel that half my job is helping foreigners settle in China. Crime is one of the things they worry about. Within a week, their worries are out the window. But, why?HOW IS THERE SO LITTLE STREET CRIME?Don’t get me wrong, there is crime in China, but you’re very unlikely to be a victim. “Street crime” such as robbery, assault, rape and murder are astonishingly low. In large Chinese cities, I have no fear listening to my iPod and walking home through unknown neighborhoods for two hours in the middle of the night.Travelers and expats appreciate this quality over here, yet can’t seem to explain exactly why it is. Rich and poor are living together. Surely, there are plenty of “opportunities” for crime walking down the streets. So why is China so safe?Here are a few factors that likely influence the low street crime of China:THE SHAME FACTORIn the USA, South America and elsewhere, crime is often glamorized and romanticized. Many celebrities have even been caught exaggerating the length of jail time that they have actually served. Inversely from Asian culture, this criminality builds credibility and respect in the western world, and convicts may even be seen as attractive to the opposite sex.China is different.Not only are street crimes such as thievery and assault illegal, they are also shameful in Asia. The same kind of shame that comes from an abhorrent crime in the USA may be brought on by a “petty” crime such as pickpocketing (in China). The shame is not only felt by the criminal, but also by his/her family, and often by the whole village. While an American may be caught recording or boasting about their assaults on the street, no one in China would think of doing this. With little glory and romance in crime, young Asians tend to aspire towards a more “respectable” financially lucrative career for prestige.IT’S CROWDED AND URBANChina is crowded! In the USA, people often assume “more people + less space = more confrontation”. Since geographical crime statistics are often difficult to discern, this attitude is debatable.Urban activist Jane Jacobs coined the phrase “eyes on the street” to describe why crowded and active urban streets are likely to be safer, as crime is less likely to happen with potential witnesses and everyday heroes that could step in and help.Since Asian and Chinese cities are filled with convenience stores, shopfronts and street food vendors, there are an abundance of eyes on the street to keep one safe on the sidewalk.GENETICSThis would surely be a controversial hypothesis. Many scientists now believe that around 50% of our behavior is based on the DNA we’re born with, while 50% is based on our environment. Therefore, our genes are built on experience from our evolutionary past. This is called the “50-0-50” rule (‘0’ actually representing parental influence).Since China was among the earliest civilizations, and still prospering today, the genetics have been passed down from generation to generation to be harmonious.RESPECT FOR AUTHORITYWith respect and adherence to authority, Chinese citizens are less likely to be a nuisance.Authority can be a government, an employer, or a family. With so many eyes on you, all with high expectations, you’re more likely to grow up to be self-conscious and cooperative.LACK OF SINGLE PARENT FAMILIESTwo-thirds of young criminals in the USA come from single-parent, usually fatherless, families.In China, marriage is often based on a rational compatibility, not love or spontaneity. Couples won’t marry because it sounds like an exciting idea, but rather because it makes the most sense for their future and for their respective families. Once children are born, family members generally assume a role and adhere to it. If there is stress in the family, the parents are more likely to unhappily stick it out to survive, putting others ahead of them.CONFUCIANISM“If you govern by regulations and keep them in order by punishment, the people will avoid trouble but have no sense of shame. If you govern them by moral influence, and keep them in order by a code of manners, they will have a sense of shame and will come to you of their own accord.”Confucius advocated that punishment should take the form of social ostracism, rather than forced suffering. These beliefs still persist today. Confucianism is not a religion, but rather an ethical and philosophical system, which has endless applications within a society. Confucius, the bearded Yoda of ancient China, advocated relationships based on mutual respect and piety, but also strict hierarchy and adherence to law.Even in today’s ever-changing Asia, Confucius still has a great influence. Increasingly, “Confucian Classrooms” are operating in Chinese prisons, rehabilitating inmates by understanding societal harmony and Chinese history. Today, many Chinese are living their daily lives with little knowledge of laws and little contact with the police. However, they are disciplined within their communities by the invisible laws of Confucianism.COOPERATION WITH POLICEIn the US, due to a distrust or resentment of the police, crimes often are carried out with no arrests, as it is difficult to persuade citizens to cooperate and speak to the police. In China, there is a lot of cooperation between police and citizens. This helps lead to convictions.Believe me, follow the rules and you will have a safe and pleasant trip in China!
This Is probably the country where I feel the safest (with Singapore).i have been living in China for a while now and never had any problem apart pickpocket one time.The only time It had been hot was with one of our supplier who didn't want to rework some goods he failed quality control. Otherwise I never have experienced any problem.A good thing in China is safety, get out in the middle of the night the risk to get trouble is extremely low. I have been living in Paris and in the usa and it was much more dangerous there. In Paris you can not get out your smarrphone in the metro …unsafe.China may be criticized for many things regarding human right etc….but I have to admit that their strictness about crime bring for people who are behaving properly a certain piece of mind. They don't joke with crime. They can jail you for several months if you steal and no need a big amount of money to be sentenced 6 months (And this is not hotel style from what I heard)So generally speaking people are not playing too much when it is related to physical safety. I don't know if the fact I am foreigner there has an influence or not (I suppose yes a bit as I heard also some stories of Chinese people getting threaten by other Chinese at ATM or by apartment robery)What is a bit unsafe in China however are cars and bus: they never let you cross street as pedestrian and it can become very dangerous if you try to play against it.
Absolutely.1.Beautiful WritingWhen you fall in love with Chinese handwriting, these characters are endowed with magic power.Many people have practiced Chinese hard-tipped calligraphy since they were young.Like English, there are many different types:2.Deep meaning but with few wordsChinese is renowned for not expressing their ideas in a direct way, actually because it is related to their mother tongue.E.g:如梦令昨夜雨疏风骤，浓睡不消残酒。试问卷帘人，却道“海棠依旧”。知否，知否?　应是绿肥红瘦。Last night the strong wind blew with a rain fine;Sound sleep did not dispel the aftertaste of wine.I ask the maid rolling up the screen.The same crab apple，”says she，“can be seen.”“But don’t you know，Oh，don’t you knowThe red should languish and the green should grow?”P.s.：It kind of damage the artistic conception when it is translated into other languages.3.Interesting pronunciationWhen language learners start to learn Chinese, homophone will become a big problem. Furthermore, like Japanese, when same character combine with others, it will change the tone.
Chinese is the crystallization of the splendid culture developed continuously for over 5,000 years. As China grows stronger, more and more foreigners would like to learn Chinese and Chinese culture. Actually as a Chinese, I cannot say Chinese is the most beautiful language in the world which may look so arrogant, but there is no doubt that it can must be one of the most beautiful languages.Chinese possesses many advantages over other languages. Written Chinese is based on a set of ideogram characters. From a simple word one may obtain a wealth of information about its hidden meaning, evolution history and related phrases. Historians can decipher the damaged ancient characters carved on ox hones but no such achievement could be obtained with Latin-based languages. To express a given idea, the Chinese version is always the shortest, most accurate and most effective. Moreover, Chinese kids learn Chinese by memorizing patterns or funny pictures which stimulate curiosity and imagination. What＇s more, in some ways, Chinese is also easy to learn. Many foreigners speak Chinese fluently after a few years of learning.And I would like to take a TV drama that is popular these days as an example to show how broad and profound Chinese is. If you have learned Chinese, you can feel the difference in artistic conception after translated into English and some sentences will be lengthy.This drama, which is adapted from a same name novel called <三生三世十里桃花> and in English it is called ‘Life after Life,Blooms over Blooms’. And if you translate it word by word, it is called ‘Three Lifetimes and Ten-Mile Peach Blossoms’.我自是百般推脱，他自是千般盛情。I of course, did my best to excuse myself, while he, naturally, pressed on with all graciousness and courtesy.累世情缘谁捡起，谁抛下，谁忘前尘，谁总牵挂。忆当时年华，谁点相思，谁种桃花。This fated love of forever and a day——Who has picked it up? Who has thrown it away? Who has forgotten it all? Who yearns for it to stay?光晕一层一层，打出斑驳的印记。桃林十里，娇烂漫红，千朵浓芳，一只只缀乱云霞。那艳霞低下立着的玄衣青年，眉如泼墨，鬓若刀裁。Halos of light rippled and splashed. In the acres of peach trees, pink blossoms bloomed, breathing out sweet perfume. Beneath the rosy clouds and scented mists stood the young man, all dressed in black, his eyebrows as dark as if painted with ink, the hair above his temples as sharply outlined as if cut with a knife.桃花灼灼，枝叶蓁蓁，妖娆伤眼。The peach blossoms are radiant, the leaves luxuriant, their allure stunning.
举个栗子 for exampleI will use the primary school English translationaaaa….. I feel so ShameA small storyThe ancient Chinese余少能视鬼，尝于雪夜野寺逢一提傀儡翁，鹤发褴褛，唯持一木偶制作极精，宛如娇女，绘珠泪盈睫，惹人见怜。　时云彤雪狂，二人比肩向火，翁自述曰：少时好观牵丝戏，耽于盘铃傀儡之技，既年长，其志愈坚，遂以此为业，以物象人自得其乐。奈何漂泊终生，居无所行无侣，所伴唯一傀儡木偶。　翁且言且泣，余温言释之，恳其奏盘铃乐，作牵丝傀儡戏，演剧于三尺红绵之上，度曲咿嘤，木偶顾盼神飞，虽妆绘悲容而婉媚绝伦。曲终，翁抱持木偶，稍作欢容，俄顷恨怒，曰：平生落魄，皆傀儡误之，天寒，冬衣难置，一贫至此，不如焚。遂忿然投偶入火。吾止而未及，跌足叹惋。忽见火中木偶婉转而起，肃拜揖别，姿若生人，绘面泪痕宛然，一笑迸散，没于篝焰。 火至天明方熄。　翁顿悟，掩面嚎啕，曰：暖矣，孤矣。The ancient Chinese can not be translated into EnglishFirst translated into modern Chinese than translated into English————————————————————————————————————我小时候能看见鬼，一个雪夜里在一座荒寺里遇见一位手里提着木偶傀儡的老翁、这老翁白发衣衫褴褛，但是他的木偶却制作精良，活脱一美娇娘，眼和睫毛都挂着泪珠，让人见了心生怜爱。When I was young, I can see the ghost. In a snowy night I meet an old man in the Temple.He has long white beard and white hair and wore very old clothes .But the puppet is very delicate and beautiful, like a pretty girl。————————————————————————————————————外面风雪更大了，于是两人干脆坐着一起烤火，老人便自诉道：年轻时喜欢看木偶戏，为了学习钻研木偶戏，耽搁了时光，学会了，年龄也大了，但是对此也更加坚定，于是便以木偶戏为职业Outside the snow more. so we sat around the fire and began to chat.Old man said when he was young，he like to see puppet showin order to study puppetry.He lost his time miss his life and loveNow he was old，but he can’t change to love and acting puppet showSo he took acting puppet show as his career————————————————————————————————————虽然自得其乐，但是却一生漂泊，居无定所，没有伴侣，唯一陪伴的就是木偶了，老翁一边讲着一边哭泣，我安慰他，恳请他伴奏，做傀儡戏，He was happy and enjoy his career but he don’t have home，Wife and children.Only the puppet is accompanying him.The old man began to cry.I comforted him for a long time and I hope he can perform a puppet show————————————————————————————————————他提着木偶在三尺红布前表演起来，木偶，吟唱悠扬，顾盼神飞，虽然画的是悲伤的妆容，但是却美丽绝伦Finally, he carried the puppet show up in red clothThe beautiful puppets dance with the sounds of the soft musicI'm totally addicted to it. So perfect and impressive…————————————————————————————————————表演完了，老翁抱着木偶心情稍微平复了下，可是突然愤怒的说：我这一生落魄，都是被你所误，天冷了连衣服都买不起，贫寒到了这里，不如把你烧掉，于是便把木偶扔进了火里the show over… Old man holding the puppet become to calm down..Suddenly he was angry to said “My life is very poor and suffering, all because of you , even clothes can not afford to buy,so cold ！so cold ！ burn you！ burn you！free me！ free me！”then he put the puppet into the fire.————————————————————————————————————我来不及制止，只能跺脚，哀叹惋惜这木偶。It was sudden that I could not stop him，just feel sorry for the puppet————————————————————————————————————忽然看见这木偶自己慢慢站起来，悲凄的对着老翁，作揖，行叩拜之礼以示告别，仿佛活人一般,笑着淹没于大火之中。but we surprised to see the puppet slowly stood up . face old man to bow with hands clasped she was sad but she smile to old man thanks for him….like a real human….After Say goodbyeThe puppet disappeared in the fireWe were silent and stunned for a long time until the next day。————————————————————————————————————火到了第二天才熄灭，老翁幡然醒悟，捂着面大哭的说到：是暖和了却真的只剩我一人了。The fire has gone out. The old man finally wakes upHe covered his face crazy shouting the name of the puppet and cryHe said to the gone out fire.“Yes I’m free and warm……………….Yes I’m free and warm”“ But only alone me in this world…………”————————————————————————————————————According to the storyThis MV for youLyric嘲笑谁恃美扬威Mock whose bluffed beauty没了心如何相配Which match is without a heart盤铃声清脆The handbell rings clear帷幕间灯火幽微The light between parocheth flickers我和你 最天生一对You and I are born best pairs没了你才算原罪It is losing you that is the original sin没了心才好相配It is losing a heart that makes our match你褴褛我彩绘Ragged you and painted I并肩行过山与水Walked by mountains and by water你憔悴 我替你明媚You are gaunt, but I shine for you是你吻开笔墨Your kiss melted the dye染我眼角珠泪That becomes the drop of tear at the corners of my eyes演离合相遇悲喜为谁For whom we perform parting, meeting, pain and joy?他们迂回误会They wander and wonder我却只由你支配But you are my only master问世间哪有更完美Are there a thing more perfect in this world?兰花指捻红尘似水In the pointing of a little fingerThe world of mortals flows by三尺红台 万事入歌吹On a high stage several feetEverything goes like songs唱别久悲不成悲 十分红处竟成灰Sorrow prolonged is no more sorrowWhere there is purest red nothing but ashes is left愿谁记得谁 最好的年岁Prey who remembers whose best ages你一牵我舞如飞You pull the string and I dance like I fly你一引我懂进退You drag the string and I move back and forth苦乐都跟随Following no matter bitterness or joy举手投足不违背Never disobey in slightest movements将谦卑 温柔成绝对I turn modesty into absolute gentleness你错我不肯对I don't want to be right when you are wrong你懵懂我蒙昧I am ignorant when you perplex心火怎甘心扬汤止沸Who wants to pour out the water to stop the boiling of your heart?你枯我不曾萎You shrink but I never wither你倦我也不敢累When you get tired I dare not get weary用什么暖你一千岁With what can I warm you for a thousand ages风雪依稀秋白发尾Though wind and blizzardYour hair whites灯火葳蕤 揉皱你眼眉Light flickersBringing wrinkles to your eyes and brows假如你舍一滴泪If you will spare a drop of tear假如老去我能陪If when you are old I can stay by your side烟波里成灰 也去得完美Burning to ashes in a whirl of smokeCould be my perfect leave﻿Yiwei FANG thanks_______________________________________________________________________Just study chinese and feeling the meaning lyric belong the MVIt’s different between EnglishChinese is the most beautiful language in the worldWe have dozens of words describing the different states of the same things same feelings………..If you want to describe a girl looks goodgood-lookingbeautifulprettyhotfabulousattractivegorgeousstunningcharmingenchantinglovelyand….some I can not find outIf you want to describe a girl looks good in chinesethese are a little bit of the chinese美丽贤淑、美丽大方、倾国倾城、大家闺秀、小家碧玉、闭月羞花、沉鱼落雁、倾国倾城、温婉娴淑、千娇百媚、仪态万千、国色天香、花容月貌、明目皓齿、淡扫峨眉、清艳脱俗、香肌玉肤　仪态万端、婉风流转、美撼凡尘、聘婷秀雅、娥娜翩跹、俏丽多姿、风姿卓越、顾盼流转、清丝纠缠、举步轻摇、艳冠群芳、剪水双瞳、美艳绝伦、神仙玉骨、楚楚动人、温柔善良、风姿绰约、顾盼流转、清丝纠缠、举步轻摇、手如柔荑、肤如凝脂、领如蝤蛴、齿如瓠犀、螓首蛾眉、巧笑倩兮、美目盼兮、冰雪聪明、惠质兰心、通情达理、翩若惊鸿、貌若天仙、环肥燕瘦、窈窕淑女、秀丽端庄、艳若桃李、花枝招展、温柔可人、活泼可爱、亭亭玉立、如花似玉、软玉温香、兰质蕙心、秀外慧中、楚楚动人、明眸皓齿、天生丽质、睿智、淑德、贤惠、文静，优雅、纯朴、清秀、可爱、聪颖、灵秀、俊俏、俊美、美丽、大方、温柔、可爱、单纯、纯洁 、明艳不可方物
I don't know if they are all beautiful.  LOL I lived in the Netherlands when I was a child and while I find the sound of Dutch to be soothing like the smell of Grandma's cookies, its extremely gutteral and even the Dutch joke about how it is definitely not beautiful. I feel Cantonese is also not so gentle on the ears and it has a certain glottal thing that sounds like someone is getting ready to retch.French gets a lot of play when people talk about romantic or sexy languages but I find it nasally and not so attractive to hear.  Its association with Romance is likely just do to the Roman influence and the Romantic reputation of the city of Paris itself.The soft consonant sounds of Mandarin however can be very beautiful when spoken smoothly and in a low voice.  My wife's spoken Mandarin varies from her "phone voice" or the way she reads aloud which just makes me crazy, to the harpy shrill, chalkboard shredding sounds of her disciplining our son when he gets out of hand.  But I imagine who the speaker and their mood and tone has a pretty strong effect on the beauty or flinch factor of many languages.Still Im pretty sure you can rank them and Mandarin definitely falls higher on the chart of linguistic aesthetics than Dutch, Cantonese or most Arabic dialects....at least to my ears.
Mandarin is most suitable for modern Chinese.While Cantonese is more suitable for traditional peoms.Wu language is commonly recognised as the most beautiful language, sounding like opera.The harshest should be one of some unknown Hunan dialects, using it, even a romantic private conversation between lovers could sound like a intensive altercation.
Is there persecution of Muslims in China? No.Is there a crack down in XinJiang Autonomous Region against separatists and terrorists creating violent unrest and murdering citizens. Yes.The crack down is not persecution of Muslims by China.Several “traditional Islamic separatist movements that have existed in China for some time,” such as the East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM), a Uighur separatist organization that China and the United States have labeled a terrorist organization. Beijing often blames Xinjiang unrest on the ETIM, while maintaining that Uighurs enjoy “unprecedented religious freedom” in China.XinJiang Autonomous Region is north of Tibet and touches Afghanistan and Russia with larger borders with India, Pakistan, Tajikistan, Kyrgyzstan, Kazakhstan and the country of Mongolia.The Soviet Union with Russia and the Soviet- stans fueled the unrest in XinJiang and fought a border war with China there in the ‘60’s.Now it is Radical Islam and ISIS and … whoever.XinJiang now has hundreds of fighters with ISIS in Iraq and Syria who have been heard to say, “When we come home, the streets will run red with Han blood.”The Han’s are the majority in China, and in my ‘lao laowai Intenational Consultant working on the high risk business side with the high risk security side guys’ opinion, China absolutely does protect ethnic minorities. Yes … protects minorities.One China.China does not persecute Muslims.A crack down is happening.It’s kind of like Calexit for the People’s Republic of California and Don’t Mess with The Republic of Texas which ‘has the only right to secede’.Muslim separatists and ISIS in China and Calexit and Texas? It’s not going to happen in China, and it’s not going to happen in America.
Persecution?They enjoy much more privileges than general Han people.“Did you hear of Halal tissue? ”Halal toilet for Muslims only.A bus dedicated to Muslims(it runs on the road without a license plate).Counters only for Hui people in a supermarket.Wards for Muslims in a hospital.Halal salt for MuslimsHui people enjoy 10 bonus points in civil service examination in Gansu, the same as the families of the policemen who died in line of duty.“Preach Islamic doctrine to 1.3 billion Chinese people”I think some Chinese Muslims are more devoted than many Arabians in Middle East or those so-called Muslims in Europe. At least you seldom hear of things like Halal tissue or Halal salt. Though a number of them don’t read much Quran, they would get pissed when they hear the word “pig” or see other people eating pork to emphasize their Muslim identity. Last year, two professors proposed that it’s necessary to legislate to manage the Halal industry, and the people who counterfeit Halal food would be sentenced to imprisonment for life or even death. Of course many of them enjoy alcoholic drinks somtimes, not sure if they have invented Halal alcohol, but anti-pork seems to be the ultimate goal in their life. Well, in China, there are other religions that have food prohibition. Buddhists are vegeterians; Taoists cannot eat beef, fish, dogs and geese, but non of them asked to set up dedicated canteens in campus or a law to manage things like “Buddhist food” or “Taoist food”.And when you are offended or blackmailed by these Muslims, even the police would persuade you to compromise, because it’s not politically correct to disrupt “national unity”.Maybe living in a non-Shariah country is a persecution to them. I appeal to Saudi Arabia to accept these mawali and offer them a Shariah life.
Yes, but the Chinese government isn’t persecuting them because they’re Muslims but because of the demands for secession. See, there are ethnic groups in the west of China who are known as Uyghurs and other Turkic peoples. They happen to be Muslims and they have been wanting to separate from China for a while due to cultural differences. China’s government has a strong and widely popular One China Policy which exists and is being propagated to keep China united, especially when many of China’s enemies want the country to be divided *cough* America *cough*. So what is happening is that in order to stop the Uyghurs from forming or organising some sort of rebellion, they are closely monitoring them and restricting certain rights of theirs.I really disagree with this, however that is the reality. Yes, there may be cases where Uyghurs are persecuted for being Muslims, but most of the time it’s because they are seen as a threat to stability in Western China, nothing to do with their faith.
No, of course not. On the contrary, there is only persecution of non-Muslims in China.The so-called 宗教信仰自由 (freedom of religious belief) and 少数民族优待政策 (preferential policies for minor ethnicities) in China is really “too much” that it even persecutes the major ethnicity - Han Chinese people. There are halal salts, Muslim-only toilets, halal foods anywhere in China, and even Muslim-only counters in some shops. Han Chinese people have no such preferential policies, but Muslims have!!!!This is the reason why there is a black humour called “the People’s Islamic State of China”.
There is something you need to know before understanding China’s issues:What the CCP government suppresses is not freedom of speech, or criticizing the government and public figures. Instead, it is radicalism that will be strictly inspected and controlled.It applies to all Chinese citizens. Many Muslims live in the border areas so that they do not know what the Chinese Han also face. They can easily refer to this as Islamic persecution. Also, because some Muslim separatists are under the shelter of some foreign governments outside of China (e.g. Turkey and the US), they do have some chances to speak about the situation, which of course factors into their own benefit.When I compared these to the situation and different stories I have personally encountered elsewhere in the world, I believe that persecution of Muslims in China does not exist in general, but any separatism and fundamentalism in the name of religious freedom will certainly be repressed instantaneously and crudely.(Sometimes there can be tensions in those precautionary measures….)
The question is based on incorrect assumption. British didn’t pull out of Hong Kong because they felt it was morally wrong. If anything they should have been morally obligated to stay as majority of Hong Kong residents wanted status quo.Now, let me explain why it’s unreasonable to expect China to get out of Tibet.Tibet is not a colony. It’s an annexed territory, and Tibetans are Chinese citizens. Furthermore, Han Chinese now outnumber Tibetans in Tibet. Most westerners think China annexed Tibet in 20th century, but Qing had direct administration in Tibet for over 200 years prior. Tibet’s independence movement in late 19th century, which was sponsored by British (to put Tibet under its influence), was never accepted by Chinese government. 200 years is a long time… when do you think the U.S. will return the land to the native Americans? or California/Texas back to Mexico? Furthermore, if China should be let go of Tibet, Xinjiang should be let go as well. Inner Mongolia should go to Mongolia, and Manchus should be allowed to secede as well.Green and Pink area are territories annexed by China under Manchu rule. If Tibet is a fair game, so are rest of the territories.More than half of China’s territory gone… Factually speaking Tibet has just as much rights as any other territories in the world that wants to secede from their host nation, no more, no less. Yet, somehow western world is incapable of using the same yardstick on China. This is what’s bothering the fuck out of Chinese people.How many former states in the following list should be given their land back?List of former sovereign statesAnnexation and secession of countries are dirty businesses, but it happens and has caused tremendous good as well as bad in history, it’s not a simple matter of right or wrong. Furthermore, about 29% of Tibetans support independence from China based on survey conducted by Tibetan exile government, that doesn’t sound like a majority to me. In fact, it’s less than the percentage of Scottish people who wanted to secede from United Kingdom in the last independence vote in 2014 where 44% of Scotish wanted independence. Yet, I don’t see Alex Salmond winning a Nobel peace prize… (For those of you who don’t know him, Alex is the former Scottish First Minister and one of the biggest proponent for Scottish independence.)Scottish independence referendum, 2014Tibetan exiles discuss China policy | The NationalNow, how silly would it be if Chinese government and its media propped up Lakota native American tribe that currently has an active separatist movement, and proclaim that America should give its states, North and South Dakota and Montana, to the Lakota people? Western countries’ support of Tibetan independence movement is largely viewed in the same light in China.
From 600 years ago, when Yuan Dynasty first appointed Dalai Lamas as the spiritual leaders in Tibet to PRC’s peaceful liberation in 1951. Tibet was NEVER an independent country. As long as the name “Tibet” existed, it has always been part of China. No countries in the world recognizes Tibet as a country.Not forced into incorporation (Panchan Lama, Mao Zedong, Dalai Lama, 1951)The signing of Seventeen Point Agreement for the Peaceful Liberation of TibetBefore 1951, Tibet lamas were theocratic rulers of the Tibet Autonomous Region. In millions of Tibetan, 200k of the population were monks. Other were slaves and serfs. When the bayonets of the State's Liberation Army in Tibet, the last of all on Earth, slavery was abolished.After the liberation of Tibet.....Tibetan population in Lhasa Administered Tibet has increased from 1.2 million in 1951 to almost 3 million in 2007.Infant mortality has dropped from 43% in 1950 to 0.66% in 2000Life expectancy has risen from 35.5 years in 1950 to 67 years in 2000Death rate of women in childbirth: 5,000/100,000 in 1951, 175/100,000 in 2010Tibet has 22,500 km of highways, all built since 1950The GDP of Tibet Autonomous Region (TAR) today is 30 times that before 1950PRC has spent more than 8 billion yuan subsidizing farmers children in Tibet to attend boarding schoolsIlliteracy rate was 90% in 1951, today 98.8% children enrolled in public schoolsPRC offered 15 years of free education, most classes taught in the Tibetan language, only mathematics, physics, and chemistry are taught in Chinese.The list goes on.........Beijing is clearly a better choice for Tibet!
Britain forced Qing empire to cede a piece of its terriory after 1st Opium War, the Hong Kong island.Then in another treaty, Qing ceded Kowloon peninsula.Then in another treaty, Qing leased “New-Territories” to Britain for 99 years.So China have righteous claim over Hong Kong, when it decided to tear up these unjust treaties.Xizang was once a powerful kingdom untill 10th century named Tubo, intermarry and fight with midlander’s Tang dynasty generation by generation. But it collapsed several decades before the fall of Tang, then never again re-build after shattered itself into pieces.Xizang have never been any form of independent country since then. Not even close, after Qing seized fully control over it in late 17th century. The emperor assign its theocratic leader from candidates the local offers, the empirial government have garrison and governor in Lhasa.Qing had never ever cede Xizang to any other country. Xizang have never declared independence even after the fall of Qing or in the chaotic ROC era. “Can’t regain effective governing” does not mean lost sovereignty, just think Aleppo under IS control still belongs to Syria.So, Xizang is part of China.The British could keep Hong Kong in their hand after 1949, only thanks to Mao spared them. CCP decided PLA should to stop at the shore of Shenzhen River, the border of New-Territories, intending to save a small window to get access to western world.Current British government performed quite pragmatic, as they already learnt enough how tough and bad-ass CCP would be when facing foreign occupation after HMS Amethyst Incident on April 1949. London recognized PRC as the sole legal regime of China in 1950 in return of the favor.That 99-year rent treaty was only used as an excuse to support this trade, have no constraint force, just indicating the tacit would end by that time.When it comes to July 1982, Thacher paid a visit to Beijing seeking to grasp the Pearl of East for longer. She once had quite high confidence because of recent victory in Malvinas, but very soon she got stomped over by Deng Xiaoping’s might.“If we can’t take back Hong Kong after half a century the People’s Republic have been found, the government shall be nothing better than late-Qing court, Chinese leaders would be remembered as Li Hongzhang! (who signed the treaty rent New-Territories)”“We Chinese is a bit poor. But once at war, more than enough of us don’t fear death.”“Reach an agreement or not is inessential. Anyway, if not offered other option, China shall start unilateral re-unite progress in 1984 .”Soon Thacher compromised, offered Kowloon and New-Territores to China, only try keep Hong Kong island. Deng answered then he gonna cut every single kind of supply, food, water, electricity, etc. towards Hong Kong. China was willing to suffer the decline of trading, to force UK feed its colony on its own.Britain surrendered to China’s determination and power. The entire Sino-Brit Negotiation about HK had nothing to do about the final result, only the protocol of handling-over.So basiclly, Britain got kicked out of HongKong, after China threw a crystal-clear BOW or DIE ULTIMATUM at Mrs PM’s face. Knowing have 0 chance, Brits conceded, chose to negotiate how gentlely China should be, while carving the stolen Pearl out of Queen’s crown.Try to force China do such a compromise, by any means you can imagine, just let anyone try it.Last time someone do such thing was CIA in 1950s. It trained fled aristocrats and their loyal couriers in the mountains of Colorado, then permeate these agents into Xizang, in attempt to incite an uprise.Given formidable terrain and altitude, the ethnic identity, very small number of PLA garrison, CIA believe that they were assured to prevail.It worked, the largest revolt happened after 1949 outnumbering local PLA 5 to 1. Not very long before the rebellion got literally annihilated, mostly by former serfs and slaves withhold fanatical support to central government.Now Xizang get railway, highway, electricity, obligated education, healthcare, billions of annual subsidies from rich provinces. The living standard of Zang people dwarfing any other country on Himalaya.But, still, you can continue what CIA gave up 50 years ago, will ya?
Tibet acquired Buddhism from China, having previously ignored it. The founder was a Chinese princess married to a Tibetan king - quite a common pattern for missionary religions to spread.Whenever Tibet had a government, it recognised the Emperor of China as overall ruler. See How Tibet Emerged Within the Wider Chinese Power-Political Zone.The Dalai Lamas have an undeserved reputation. The reality was rather squalid, see The Strange History of the Dalai Lamas.
Hong Kong has been one part of China for hundreds of years, until the British robbed it from the weak Qing Dynasty government of China and made HK its colony. It’s right for Americans to be free from the UK, so it’s right for HK to be free from the UK, too.As you see, the old Empire of Great Britain let all its old colonies gain their independence after World War 2. So HK is no exception.And most important, it’s more of a contractual thing than just a noble act. The Qing Dynasty and Britain signed a “renting”(HK) contract of 99 years, and in 1997 it was up, according to the paper China and Britain signed a century ago. So it’s time to return.Another thing you need to know is China is neither like Europe or the USA, we have a long tradition of unification, even more than a thousand years.Europe had many kingdoms for hundreds of years, so it formed a few countries now. The USA was initially 13 indepedent colonies willing to be united. But we formed a single united kingdom for the first time 2200 years ago, and the tradition went on and strenghtened itself. Even though there are short breaks and civil wars in this long long period, most of the time it’s a united nation. So we share the idea of one nation very naturally, and could not bear tearing apart the country.In fact, even though politicians have great powers in China, none of them dare split the country. It’s a severe crime for any political leader, far more serious than really big scandals and corruption.As for Tibet, there was slavery before the CCP entered. I have a few friends who are Tibetans, but they wouldn’t think it’s a good idea to be “a single country”. You should go to Tibet and see what common people really think instead of just listening to a few comments here. They could not represent fellow Tibetans, like IS could not represent all the muslims. Maybe they just want slavery back and be slave owners again.
Most countries have Han Chinese, so in a sense, most countries are culturally close to China.However, if what you mean is which nation is culturally closer to China, then that’s an easier answer. Nation is identified as “a large aggregate of people united by common descent, history, culture, or language, inhabiting a particular country or territory.” So in a sense, nation means groups of people with common cultures.So that will leave Han Chinese, Yamato Japanese, Koreans, and Kinh Vietnamese. Namely, Mainland China/Taiwan/foreign Chinese, Japan/foreign Japanese, North/South Korea/foreign Koreans, Vietnam/foreign Vietnamese. Unsurprisingly, they’re the only ones with Chinese-derived names in English: Chin(ese) 秦, Japan(ese) 日本, Korea(n) 高麗, Vietnam(ese) 越南. In short, they’re collectively called the Sinosphere, or nations within Chinese cultural sphere of influence.Notice I don’t have Singapore in any of them, simply because Singapore is a highly Westernized country that aims to have blends of multiple cultures, so while Han Chinese is the largest population, that doesn’t mean Singapore is culturally Chinese. In fact, it’s a very big mixture between British, Chinese, Indian, and Malay cultures.Also, I will be talking about traditional cultures, not modern culture, because in modern culture, everyone is culturally similar since globalization connects everyone. Majority of humans in this Earth now wears modern clothing, namely a shirt and pants/skirt. So everyone looks the same and culturally similar as well.LanguageThese 4 nations have a history of Chinese influence in their languages. They all have at least 50–60% Chinese-derived loanwords, usually for complex terms. The most common names for individuals in these nations are Chinese loanwords, and only Japanese have a lot of native Japanese names (but mostly still written in Kanji). An example for Chinese loanwords is the word for student (I will be using Cantonese and Mandarin for comparison, since Mandarin evolves very far from Middle Chinese of Tang dynasty, when majority of these loanwords were loaned to other countries).Mandarin: 学生 xuéshēngCantonese: 學生 hok6 saang1Korean: 學生 (학생) hagsaengVietnamese: 學生 học sinhJapanese: 学生 (がくせい) gakuseiAnother example is the term “world.”Mandarin: 世界 shìjièCantonese: 世界 sai3 gaai3Korean: 世界 (세계) segyeVietnamese: 世界 thế giớiJapanese: 世界 (せかい) sekaiAll these 4 nations also used Chinese characters as their official writing systems (Chinese Hanzi, Vietnamese Han Tu, Korean Hanja, Japanese Kanji)China (Hanzi)Japan (Kanji + Kana)Korea (Hanja + Hangeul)Vietnam (Han Tu + Chu Nom)ArchitectureThe Sinosphere’s architectural designs and elements are all derived from Chinese architecture. Japan borrowed from Tang China, Korea borrowed from Tang to Ming China, Vietnamese borrowed from Tang to Qing China. However, the most visible cultures are probably cultural borrowings from the last dynasties, so Japan would be Tang-influence, Korea would be Ming-influence, and Vietnam would be Ming-Qing influence.[China (top left) - Japan (top right) - Korea (bottom left) - Vietnam (bottom right)]Traditional ArchitecturesImperial Palace GatesTemples in snowCovered bridgesTraditional GardensInterlocked wooden brackets (Dougong)FashionChina was like the America of ancient East Asia. Everyone wanted to follow their fashion. Therefore, they all adopted Hanfu (漢服). However, as times passed, although the Chinese influence was still there, they all evolved into something distinct. Japan has Wafuku (和服), Korea has Hanbok (韓服), and Vietnam has Viet Phuc (越服). Each dynasty differed, however, but the final attires that are now used to represent each nation is distinct and is very beautiful.Han dynasty Quju vs. Edo period FurisodeMing dynasty Aoqun vs. Joseon dynasty Chima JeogoriROC period Qipao vs. French period Ao Dai (although Ao Dai was derived from Ming Aoqun, it bears resemblance to Qipao due to both nations being Westernized at around the same time, meaning similar sense of fashion) and Ming dynasty Aoqun vs. Nguyen dynasty Ao Nhat BinhJust to give a comparison, here is historical illustrations of each nation’s fashion at the same time periods: (from top to bottom) Ming China, Le Vietnam, Joseon Korea, and Edo Japan (Edo Japan was the only one not influenced by Ming dynasty and retained Tang influence, so it looked quite distinct from the rest).BeliefAll the Sinospheric cultures have a history of the Three Teachings, or Buddhism, Taoism, and Confucianism. Buddhism is present in all 4 cultures and is deeply embedded in ancient and modern times. Taoism has faded, but its influence is present in every nation’s values and native religions, namely Chinese Taoism (duh), Japanese Shintoism, Korean Muism, and Vietnamese Dao Mau. Confucianism, while not a religion, is a cultural practice and teaching that is present in all 4 nations.Confucius depictions in China (top left), Vietnam (top right), Japan (bottom left), and Korea (bottom right)Buddhist depictions in China (top left), Korea (top right), Japan (bottom left), and Vietnam (bottom right)Taoist temple in JapanTaoist temple in VietnamTaoist symbol in South Korean flagThose are the three main ones that I believe defines Sinospheric cultural bonds. However, if you want to see some more minor traditional elements, here they are.Traditional arts were all influenced in some way by Chinese arts.Each nation has their own versions of mooncakes for the Mid-Autumn Festival that was a tradition for centuries.Speaking of mooncakes, each nation also celebrates the Mid-Autumn Festival for centuries.Speaking of Mid-Autumn Festival, each nation celebrated Lunar New Year for centuries (although Japan abolished it for a Western calendar, they still celebrate Lunar calendar holidays). Therefore, they all have the Chinese 12 Zodiacs, but with a few twists. Because they followed the calendar, they also had East Asian age reckoning, although that concept is slowly fading away.And because each nation celebrates Lunar New Year or a derivation of it (*coughJapancough*), each nation has their own style of giving out money in Lunar New Year.Each nation’s traditional calligraphy were all derived from Chinese calligraphy.Each nation also had their version of female entertainers that sold entertainment for a living (including selling your own bodies sometimes). They were Chinese Huakui (top left), Vietnamese Dao Nuong (top right), Japanese Geisha (bottom left), and Korean Gisaeng (bottom right).The Sinosphere also had centuries-long tradition of chopstick use, following Chinese customs.They also had centuries-long tradition of tea cultures, all derived from China.Politically, they were all a form of monarchy (although they all had feudalistic governments at one point, especially Japan) that followed the Chinese model. The picture below illustrates the royal and imperial fashions of royal and imperial concubines and wives of Emperors and Kings of the last non-Westernized periods.Also, coincidentally, all 4 nations had a history of civil war between 3 divisions. The picture below illustrates the images of the victors, with 3 divisions’ names in black, and the victors’ names in white. These civil wars were called Three Kingdoms Period of China (top left), Tay Son Rebellion of Vietnam (top right), Three Kingdoms Period of Korea (bottom left), and Sengoku Period of Japan (bottom right).There are more, like traditional styles of sitting (Japanese and Koreans sat on the floor like Chinese during Han to Tang dynasties, Vietnamese sat on raised platforms like Chinese in all dynasties, and while Chinese did all of those, they preferred tables and chairs in the late periods), Tang-style poetry, burning of incense, medicines, food preparation practices, usages of Four Symbols, Four Benevolent Animals, and Four Gentlemen in art, centuries-long lion dances derived from China, music and dance influences from China, Chinese influences in traditional martial arts, how the last eras of all 4 nations were Neo-Confucians, how all 4 cultures had their versions of the Cinderella fairy tale, the 5 Elements, how the Four Beauties and Four Classic Novels of China influences ancient and modern Sinosphere cultures, weapon styles influenced by Chinese styles, wine variants, cuisines (specifically rice and certain noodles), traditional court operas, traditional masks, usages of mandarin squares for government officials in ancient times (for Japan, it was only in Ryukyu).Even in modern times, the Sinosphere continues to influence one another and the world. Anime influences the entire world, and now Chinese and Korean animation are Japanese-influenced. Manhwa, Manhua, and Manhoa are also influenced by Manga. Jdrama also influenced Kdrama and Cdrama, and Kdrama now influences Cdrama. Manga and anime continues to be cultural inspirations for Korean, Chinese, and Vietnamese films. Hallyu influences pop music of Vietnam, China, and Japan (who originally influenced Kpop). Chinese influenced Korea and Vietnam through Cantonese films from Hongkong. Sadly, though, Vietnam hasn’t influenced anything yet ¯\_(ツ)_/¯.If anyone wants to see reconstructed traditional clothing of Vietnam, please visit my blog. Vietnam is the least-known culture within the Sinosphere, after all, so everyone automatically associates it with the rest of Southeast Asia and Indosphere, when it's not culturally related to any of them.
Japan is like Tang Dynasty China.South Korea is like Ming Dynasty China.North Korea is like Mao Dynasty China.Vietnam taken on much of Chinese culture since Han Dynasty.Taiwan is what an enlightened pan-Asian union may look like.Hong Kong is heavily influenced by southern Chinese culture with a hint of Brit.Singapore is like Hong Kong, with Peranakan aka Malay aka SEAsian influence.Macao or Macau is like Hong Kong, but Portuguese rather than British.The USSR was the model of the ROC and PRC for its nationalities policies.Italians are really similar to Chinese. That was the first impression I got in Italy.
I'd say Vietnam. Vietnam is more “Chinese” than any other countries in the world, including Singapore and Taiwan ( if you consider it as a country). Korea once was very similar to China, but then Japan colonized it, which made them a little bit “Japanese”. And then China went through a communist revolution, and then a capitalist reform. Hence, neither North Korea nor South Korea is quite similar to China anymore.Vietnam on the other hand, share a Confucian tradition with China; they also went through a communist revolution (and the communist party is still in power), and eventually they also had a capitalist reform. Both Vietnam and China are very populated countries with low GDP per capita. The only thing that makes Vietnam less “Chinese” is the fact that Vietnam had been colonized by France for a long time, and thus French culture has a great influence in Vietnam.
None. The country which is culturally closet to China is China itself. You might want to take North Korea, South Korea and Japan into consideration. But these East Asian countries are all quite different with China in terms of social culture, although they were influenced by the Chinese civilization.It all depends how you define “culturally similar”. If you think European countries are similar with one another more or less, then China, Koreas and Japan could also be considered to be similar with one another more or less. But my four years’ working experience in Germany, France and Switzerland has made me realize that European countries are actually quite different with one another in social culture. The way works in Germany will never work in France, not at all. The people who support European Union would tell you “we share a lot more similarities than you think”. This may not be wrong. But you could say the same thing towards China, Koreas, and Japan. According to my experience, Germany and France are not culturally very similar with each other. By the same logic, I wouldn’t say North Korea, South Korea and Japan are culturally very similar with China.
Singapore, since the population is 3 quarter Chinese and many are still able to speak their dialects. It is closer to the southern China though. Also, parts of other countries with a high Chinese concentration is also very similar to China, for example, Queens, New York.Otherwise, I would say Korea and the Japan are the closest without being actually Chinese. Then a close third would be Vietnam, which was influenced heavily by China in history.Of course I have to be politically correct to ignore Taiwan :D
Warning! I have included some stomach churning photographs.The Nanking Massacre was not an anomaly. It was standard wartime behavior for the Japanese army in WWII.I look upon their behavior with teeth clenching horror.Here is a list of countries invaded, conquered, or occupied by Japan before or during WWII:ChinaSoviet UnionMongoliaVietnamCambodiaLaosUnited StatesMalaysia (UK)SingaporeHong Kong (UK)Dutch East Indies (Indonesia)Timor (Portugal)Australia by seaNew Zealand by seaBurma (Myanmar )IndiaBritish New Guinea (Papua)The PhilippinesAndaman and Nicobar Islands (India)Straits Settlements (Singapore)Brunei (UK)Nauru (Australia)Guam (USA)Imphal (India)Wake Island (USA)Gilbert and Ellice Islands (UK)Christmas island (Australia)ManchuriaTaiwanKoreahttp://www.japan-talk.com/jt/new...Their behavior was generally barbaric. The Japanese were one of the most racist societies in history right up there with and possibly worse than Nazi Germany. They believed their superiority gave them to right to treat their inferiors any way they wanted and they left a swath of 10 million or more civilian bodies in their wake.Civilians were shot, bayoneted, beheaded, mutilated, buried alive, raped in a frenzy of sadistic butchery across Asia wherever they went. Mustard gas and biological agents were used. Medical experiments were done. Pregnant women had their fetuses cut out and both left to die in pools of blood. POWs were murdered, starved, worked to death, used for bayonet practice, decapitated, and eaten.https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ja...https://www.hawaii.edu/powerkill...The Japanese have a long history of insincere apologies. Part of the reason is the populace is protected from the facts about their WWII atrocities and are actually encouraged to think of themselves as the victims in the war. Sometimes so outrageous is this denial that there are accusations that reports of atrocities are an American attempt to coverup their own warcrimes.http://time.com/5546/japanese-nh...https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Na...http://www2.biglobe.ne.jp/remnan...If the Japanese were to genuinely regret and express this regret like the Germans did then I think they could look forward to being accepted back into the community of Asian nations. But instead their denials continue unabated so the tension persists.Captured photos. Like the Germans the Japanese liked to record their atrocities:Burying alive was standard operating procedure for prisoner disposalNankingBeheadings were done for sportNankingBayonet practiceI have not included the most gruesome photos.
I am an American. I have never been to Asia.I have no bias to either country, other than a love of both cultures. Or I didn’t, until I learned about this.The massacre, aptly named “The Rape of Nanjing” has been called a genocide because it was a slaughter of civilians without any reason–The city had already been captured.And not many, but still too many, Japanese people are literally denying any such “conflict”. Everyone else just calls it an exaggeration or demands “proof”. Some of the Japanese do acknowledge it.You know how, in the Western world, Holocaust deniers cause disgust in the regular population? This is like if the entire country of Germany continued to deny the Holocaust, or called it an exaggeration.But like, there are also photographs of young corpses with bayonets sticking out of vaginas littered across the city. Women and little girls were systematically raped, household by household, and then murdered. Children's genitals were sliced open to make rape easier for the Japanese soldiers. A pregnant woman was resisting rape, so she was disemboweled, fetus removed, then raped after death. This is all eyewitness accounts by locals and foreigners, film, photographic, primary source evidence.And of course the 100 heads contest, which turned into decapitating 150 Chinese civilians.Who cares if it was 300,000 people or fewer?The Nanjing Massacre is by far the most fucked up thing Japan has ever done, and they literally have memorialized some of the criminals responsible.Japan needs to apologize. I read the Wikipedia article, saw some of these pictures, and I want to call into work in the morning. So I can throw up. And cry.It was like Genocide for Fun.Edit: What a response…!Many have noted the culture of shame and honor in Japan, and how admitting to these atrocities/ “apologizing” would be impossible in that context. I see your point.But an apology? It acknowledges that these things happened. Because currently, the war crimes aren’t really acknowledged. That’s how things get omitted from schools, and textbooks. That's how Southeast Asians and Koreans and the Chinese stay bitter.When bad things like this happen, when humans do terrible things to other humans, it must be taught. So it does not happen again. We must learn history, as an example of what not to do.Don’t bitch that the Chinese government uses the massacre as propaganda to distract the people and keep them in line. If Japan had apologized, they wouldn't be able to use it.It still happened. And more people in Western countries should learn about it. Why not, just because it didn't happen to us? What about Rwanda? What about the Balkans, Cambodia? The famines in the USSR?My opinion of Japan has changed drastically. Before, since we fucking nuclear attacked them and somehow have a good relationship now, I respected what I considered a modern and free country. But this totally changed my mind.I still have no hard feelings toward Japanese people, since obviously it's not their fault, and just like the rest of Asia, I can't live without Japanese shit.Edit 2: Stop trying to invalidate my answer because I'm American and “not aware of our own mistakes”. You are making that shit up- I do know what we've done. This question is not about America, so sit the fuck down. I'm unenthusiastically American. And I'm sick of my nationality being used to cheapen what I think about the Nanjing Massacre.
Most of them probably aren't aware of it. Those that are aware of it probably each have their own opinion of it, but my guess is that the majority of them think it was a horrific act.There really isn't much to think about it other than being shocked and horrified at the horrible depths to which human beings can sink.
I'm from Nanjing. Conincidently I talked about this massacre with a Japanese person years ago.My English is not that good:)))) hope you can understand what I'm writing lol.By the end of this answer I'll post some pictures about that.I was born in Nanjing. I'm now a freshman in Nanjing .Remembering Nanjing Massacre is really necessary for everyone from this city.In Nanjing, since I was born, I'll always remember that date: 13th December,1937—-known as the biginning of Nanjing Massacre for Chinese people.Since I was in primary school, until now, in 13th December, the alarm rings all over the city, reminding people of that day. People will always stand still, whatever they are doing, they just stand, and mourning for the victims of Nanjing Massacre. It's really awesome and sometimes I'm proud of that because We are always trying to remember the history.There's a memorial museum for the victims of Nanjing Massacre. It presents people with some photos, books, weapons or something else related to that massacre…there are also some bones of..victims.There's a really huge wall inside the museum, carved with names of victims.MORE THAN 300,000 names. There's another equipment in the museum, it is called “seven drops of water” Every seven second water drops, resembling one person died because of the slaughter.Whenever I visit that place I feel sad and angry.The huge wall. On the left and right side carved with names of victims. In the middle the screen shows faces of victims.Bones of victimsAnother place is near my home where Japanese people made a big slaughter. It's near YangZi River.What impressed me most is that one rainy day I rode a bike on the road. Studdenly I found a bunch of flower in front of the monument. The flower is fresh.There are always some people remembering the history.Another small incident is when I was in high school. One Monday, one history teacher in my school told us about her story. Her family was ruined by that massacre and a lot of people died. She lived. Then she cried..she's chocking with sobs…It’a really tough for those Nanjinger who went through the terrible massacre and will always be a nightmare..There are less than 100 survivals. But we will never let the truth and history scatter in the wind.I’m not saying that we should hate Japan. On the contrary we need to learn a lot from the massacre:The corrupt and lag of China is the reason why we are killed and massacred. We need to be strong.We are not to hate. Hate is about the former generation. What we should know is that peace is a good thing. We should forget about hate and cherish peace.We should remember the history and learn from the past. We need to remember because both for China and Japan we are avoiding making such mistakes.Finally here’a what Japanese say about Nanjing Massacre
You asked me to answer this question, but I know my answer is going to disappoint you and this is an honest answer as A Japanese. I had been hesitating to answer after getting A2A, because I just remember the "word" Nanjing Massacre.   Textbooks and education differs by generation.  I am in my 30's and don't remember what I learned in junior high or high schools,  and for me back then, history was just a subject that I had to pass tests, and I was just busy memorizing what happened in which year.  This is just my experience and I don't know about other genetations, but I think schools focused more about telling us what happend between the US and Japan.  I remember that I saw some videos about the bombing in Japan and attack on Pearl Harbor.  This is just what I think, but as for Japanese, only people who are interested in history know well about Nanjin Massacre.I am a person who was wondering why Japanese government has to keep apolozing Chinese and South Korean governments.I started using Quora several months ago and Quora users' answers are helping me learn about what Japan did.
Warning! I have included some stomach churning photographs.The Nanking Massacre was not an anomaly. It was standard wartime behavior for the Japanese army in WWII.I look upon their behavior with teeth clenching horror.Here is a list of countries invaded, conquered, or occupied by Japan before or during WWII:ChinaSoviet UnionMongoliaVietnamCambodiaLaosUnited StatesMalaysia (UK)SingaporeHong Kong (UK)Dutch East Indies (Indonesia)Timor (Portugal)Australia by seaNew Zealand by seaBurma (Myanmar )IndiaBritish New Guinea (Papua)The PhilippinesAndaman and Nicobar Islands (India)Straits Settlements (Singapore)Brunei (UK)Nauru (Australia)Guam (USA)Imphal (India)Wake Island (USA)Gilbert and Ellice Islands (UK)Christmas island (Australia)ManchuriaTaiwanKoreahttp://www.japan-talk.com/jt/new...Their behavior was generally barbaric. The Japanese were one of the most racist societies in history right up there with and possibly worse than Nazi Germany. They believed their superiority gave them to right to treat their inferiors any way they wanted and they left a swath of 10 million or more civilian bodies in their wake.Civilians were shot, bayoneted, beheaded, mutilated, buried alive, raped in a frenzy of sadistic butchery across Asia wherever they went. Mustard gas and biological agents were used. Medical experiments were done. Pregnant women had their fetuses cut out and both left to die in pools of blood. POWs were murdered, starved, worked to death, used for bayonet practice, decapitated, and eaten.https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ja...https://www.hawaii.edu/powerkill...The Japanese have a long history of insincere apologies. Part of the reason is the populace is protected from the facts about their WWII atrocities and are actually encouraged to think of themselves as the victims in the war. Sometimes so outrageous is this denial that there are accusations that reports of atrocities are an American attempt to coverup their own warcrimes.http://time.com/5546/japanese-nh...https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Na...http://www2.biglobe.ne.jp/remnan...If the Japanese were to genuinely regret and express this regret like the Germans did then I think they could look forward to being accepted back into the community of Asian nations. But instead their denials continue unabated so the tension persists.Captured photos. Like the Germans the Japanese liked to record their atrocities:Burying alive was standard operating procedure for prisoner disposalNankingBeheadings were done for sportNankingBayonet practiceI have not included the most gruesome photos.
I am an American. I have never been to Asia.I have no bias to either country, other than a love of both cultures. Or I didn’t, until I learned about this.The massacre, aptly named “The Rape of Nanjing” has been called a genocide because it was a slaughter of civilians without any reason–The city had already been captured.And not many, but still too many, Japanese people are literally denying any such “conflict”. Everyone else just calls it an exaggeration or demands “proof”. Some of the Japanese do acknowledge it.You know how, in the Western world, Holocaust deniers cause disgust in the regular population? This is like if the entire country of Germany continued to deny the Holocaust, or called it an exaggeration.But like, there are also photographs of young corpses with bayonets sticking out of vaginas littered across the city. Women and little girls were systematically raped, household by household, and then murdered. Children's genitals were sliced open to make rape easier for the Japanese soldiers. A pregnant woman was resisting rape, so she was disemboweled, fetus removed, then raped after death. This is all eyewitness accounts by locals and foreigners, film, photographic, primary source evidence.And of course the 100 heads contest, which turned into decapitating 150 Chinese civilians.Who cares if it was 300,000 people or fewer?The Nanjing Massacre is by far the most fucked up thing Japan has ever done, and they literally have memorialized some of the criminals responsible.Japan needs to apologize. I read the Wikipedia article, saw some of these pictures, and I want to call into work in the morning. So I can throw up. And cry.It was like Genocide for Fun.Edit: What a response…!Many have noted the culture of shame and honor in Japan, and how admitting to these atrocities/ “apologizing” would be impossible in that context. I see your point.But an apology? It acknowledges that these things happened. Because currently, the war crimes aren’t really acknowledged. That’s how things get omitted from schools, and textbooks. That's how Southeast Asians and Koreans and the Chinese stay bitter.When bad things like this happen, when humans do terrible things to other humans, it must be taught. So it does not happen again. We must learn history, as an example of what not to do.Don’t bitch that the Chinese government uses the massacre as propaganda to distract the people and keep them in line. If Japan had apologized, they wouldn't be able to use it.It still happened. And more people in Western countries should learn about it. Why not, just because it didn't happen to us? What about Rwanda? What about the Balkans, Cambodia? The famines in the USSR?My opinion of Japan has changed drastically. Before, since we fucking nuclear attacked them and somehow have a good relationship now, I respected what I considered a modern and free country. But this totally changed my mind.I still have no hard feelings toward Japanese people, since obviously it's not their fault, and just like the rest of Asia, I can't live without Japanese shit.Edit 2: Stop trying to invalidate my answer because I'm American and “not aware of our own mistakes”. You are making that shit up- I do know what we've done. This question is not about America, so sit the fuck down. I'm unenthusiastically American. And I'm sick of my nationality being used to cheapen what I think about the Nanjing Massacre.
Most of them probably aren't aware of it. Those that are aware of it probably each have their own opinion of it, but my guess is that the majority of them think it was a horrific act.There really isn't much to think about it other than being shocked and horrified at the horrible depths to which human beings can sink.
I'm from Nanjing. Conincidently I talked about this massacre with a Japanese person years ago.My English is not that good:)))) hope you can understand what I'm writing lol.By the end of this answer I'll post some pictures about that.I was born in Nanjing. I'm now a freshman in Nanjing .Remembering Nanjing Massacre is really necessary for everyone from this city.In Nanjing, since I was born, I'll always remember that date: 13th December,1937—-known as the biginning of Nanjing Massacre for Chinese people.Since I was in primary school, until now, in 13th December, the alarm rings all over the city, reminding people of that day. People will always stand still, whatever they are doing, they just stand, and mourning for the victims of Nanjing Massacre. It's really awesome and sometimes I'm proud of that because We are always trying to remember the history.There's a memorial museum for the victims of Nanjing Massacre. It presents people with some photos, books, weapons or something else related to that massacre…there are also some bones of..victims.There's a really huge wall inside the museum, carved with names of victims.MORE THAN 300,000 names. There's another equipment in the museum, it is called “seven drops of water” Every seven second water drops, resembling one person died because of the slaughter.Whenever I visit that place I feel sad and angry.The huge wall. On the left and right side carved with names of victims. In the middle the screen shows faces of victims.Bones of victimsAnother place is near my home where Japanese people made a big slaughter. It's near YangZi River.What impressed me most is that one rainy day I rode a bike on the road. Studdenly I found a bunch of flower in front of the monument. The flower is fresh.There are always some people remembering the history.Another small incident is when I was in high school. One Monday, one history teacher in my school told us about her story. Her family was ruined by that massacre and a lot of people died. She lived. Then she cried..she's chocking with sobs…It’a really tough for those Nanjinger who went through the terrible massacre and will always be a nightmare..There are less than 100 survivals. But we will never let the truth and history scatter in the wind.I’m not saying that we should hate Japan. On the contrary we need to learn a lot from the massacre:The corrupt and lag of China is the reason why we are killed and massacred. We need to be strong.We are not to hate. Hate is about the former generation. What we should know is that peace is a good thing. We should forget about hate and cherish peace.We should remember the history and learn from the past. We need to remember because both for China and Japan we are avoiding making such mistakes.Finally here’a what Japanese say about Nanjing Massacre
You asked me to answer this question, but I know my answer is going to disappoint you and this is an honest answer as A Japanese. I had been hesitating to answer after getting A2A, because I just remember the "word" Nanjing Massacre.   Textbooks and education differs by generation.  I am in my 30's and don't remember what I learned in junior high or high schools,  and for me back then, history was just a subject that I had to pass tests, and I was just busy memorizing what happened in which year.  This is just my experience and I don't know about other genetations, but I think schools focused more about telling us what happend between the US and Japan.  I remember that I saw some videos about the bombing in Japan and attack on Pearl Harbor.  This is just what I think, but as for Japanese, only people who are interested in history know well about Nanjin Massacre.I am a person who was wondering why Japanese government has to keep apolozing Chinese and South Korean governments.I started using Quora several months ago and Quora users' answers are helping me learn about what Japan did.
WOMAN IN CHINAWoman in China is secure, enjoys her freedom and works very hard in whatever field she is working into. China, as Asia’s biggest economy and manufacturing giant, no doubt has a very strong and dedicated female participation in this achievement.  One can see Chinese woman working almost in every field like shops, cabs, hotels, restaurants, bus drivers, agents, taxi drivers besides they are in traditional sectors like Education, Army, Hospitals and in factories manufacturing almost everything in the world.  This was a pleasant experience to see them enjoying their freedom, as they almost seems to be in total control in hospitality sector of Chinese Railways, Chinese Airports /Planes/Airports , Chinese Bus Stands and they work shoulder to shoulder with male counterparts without any visible discomfort.  During my stay of two weeks and travelling extensively from Shanghai to Tibetan Plateau, not a single time I was able to see any man taking interest in any woman, ogling or staring at someone. Now, this observation also includes those faces too, which I marked as “Not Good” .  I saw them travelling alone late night metros and bus services and even driving cabs in night. As a India born, such sight in a Asian country, I am sure is rare. A strong economy comes from a safe and secure woman. I am sue, India has to learn a lot from China. What Chinese aggression and heavy headedness is promoted by international media – I could not see any such trait in them. I haven’t noticed anywhere in China where they are going “over” – it looks as they know and understand importance, responsibility of their role and they are equally acknowledged by their companion and families.  Chines do not show much “ Westernized “ emotions in public and love and romance is limited to hugs, a arm around waist like gestures. Husbands/ Boyfriends were seen holding woman purses – and she was leaning to his arm or freely walking carrying herself like a queen.  One more thing, which I so far, could not see is, anger and aggression in male voice while interacting with woman in public. And not only anger or aggression, I have yet to see teasing, leg pulling like common male traits. I don’t think such behavior might not be there, but it seems they are careful in their conduct in public.I had my share of crooked and pissed of woman working in pharmacies and shops, where they were least interested in exploring ways to communicate with a alien, they simply negate..” May Yo “ is big NO, as soon as you try to make a conversation. But such simple and natural experiences are acceptable in a country where Non-Chinese speaking people are aliens. Source: Woman in China
Being a foreign woman in China is quite a different experience to being a Chinese woman in China. I've been living in China for over 6 years and I'll tell you 5 crazy things that have happened to me here and what I think they mean for women in China. Here's a little backstory: I came to China alone, having graduated in 2008 when the economy was awful for jobs. I chose to find a job in Chengdu, since it was off the beaten track. I didn't want easy access to foreign products and English-speakers, I wanted the real deal. I figured if I was going to be in China, I'd better be in China, if you know what I mean. Here are some of the things that happened to me in my first years living in China, you may choose to believe me or not, but none of this is exaggerated. If you've read this far, don't stop at this list, I don't want to give you the wrong impression. I actually love China, though it may not look like it at first, so if you've made it this far, keep reading!For each of these points, I'll explain what I think was happening and how that relates to being a foreign woman in China. All of my lingerie was stolen from my balcony when I left it hanging on the line to dry. When I walk down the street, I often turn around to see a line of people following closely behind me like ducklings. A gas leak in my apartment caused me to pass out in the shower and when I awoke I found that the hospital had put me in front of a big glass window (I was still wet and still naked). A group of construction workers curiously stood around chain-smoking and watching the show. I am often called a Russian prostitute on the street and sometimes cars slowly follow me as I'm walking. I've been on Chinese TV multiple times.So let's break these down and see what we can really discover about being a foreign woman in China. By the way, if you have any questions or want to hear more, I have a podcast that talks all about what it's like to live in China. Find it here: www.writtenchinese.com/podcastNumber 1 : Let's Talk about the Undies! My underwear mysteriously went missing after I had been in China for about a week. I made the mistake of leaving it on the line to dry overnight, and a sneaky thong bandit crawled up my balcony and snatched them! I have a few theories about this. First, this happened back in 2009, and at that time online shopping in China was still far from being refined. I would bet that back then, very few people ordered their panties online, so they were left to choose from whatever was sold at the local shops. China is traditionally much more conservative when it comes to sexuality than the West, so often this means a lot of high-waisted granny panties and forget about any luscious fabrics like silk and lace. My theory #1: It was a young women who snatched them to impress a boyfriend or husband. China being as conservative as it is; maybe my panties being on display for several hours was a bit too risque and offended one of the neighbors. My theory #2: An uptight older lady pulled them down to teach me a lesson. Where I was living was close to a high school. Several of the children from that high school lived in the same complex where I was living.My theory #3: Some teenage boys couldn't resist, and then distributed my garments like Halloween candy to their mates. I'll never know what actually happened, but one thing's for sure: Foreign ladies in China, dry your undies INDOORS!  Number 2 : Chinese Ducklings will Follow You AnywhereLet me clarify something when talking about this one: I was not living in a particularly urban area. I was near Chengdu, but still quite a distance from the actual city. The surrounding area was countryside, so a lot of people I encountered were farmers or factory workers. Whenever I would go out on the street, I would attract a lot of attention. It still happens today where I live in Shenzhen, but it's much more mild than before. These days most Chinese people are used to seeing foreign men here and there, but foreign women can still be a spectacle. At that time, when I would go out, people would be so intrigued about what a foreigner might like to buy or eat, that they would follow me around snapping photos and giggling. I imagine I got a tiny taste of what it's like to be a Hollywood starlet. Though I have days where I just want to disappear into the crowd, for the most part this phenomenon is a big advantage. It's easier to get higher paying jobs, get special treatment at the local spa, and I don't think I've ever paid for a drink at a club. Being constantly watched is something you get used to, and if you learn to see the benefits, you really can't complain.  Number 3 : The Monkey in the Hospital ZooI remember clearly waking up in that hospital bed after getting knocked out by CO. Safety standards in China have definitely improved, but there are some things you learn the hard way- like NEVER open the window between the shower and the gas water heater. Fortunately I was living with a roommate who noticed that I had passed out and in a panic, he scooped me into a blanket and rushed me to the hospital. In the chaos, he didn't grab any clothes. When I came to, they had me hooked up to some IVs and although they had attempted to cover me up, there was definitely more on display than I would have wanted. I guess they put me in front of a big glass window for several reasons. First, maybe they thought the light and sounds would revive me. Second, they probably had never had a foreign patient at that hospital before. Having me there for the world to see likely brought the place some kind of prestige. Finally, maybe this is standard procedure and I'm looking too far into it.  Whatever the reason was, I'm sure that there are some Chinese constructions workers out there who still reminisce about the time they saw a nude foreign girl in the window. Number 4 : I'm not Russian!If you're a young foreign white woman in China with a slight build, then you have no doubt been called a Russian. I can't tell you how many times I've been in the elevator and people are talking about the "Russian Miss", thinking that I don't understand what they're saying. You have to understand that many Chinese people can't comprehend why an American girl would want to live in China. Chinese people are generally very pragmatic and after all, as Americans we can make more money at home where we have voting rights and clean air. There is a large amount of Russian women who come over to China as 'dancers', to take advantage of the burgeoning economy. It's for this reason that many people assume that I am a lady of the night. Whether I dress casually or not, someone somewhere will call me a Russian. On 6 or 7 occasions I've had guys following me in their cars while I walked to work in the morning. I guess they are looking for 8am nookie?! I will say though, that I've never really felt unsafe. While their catcalls and wandering eyes can make me feel uncomfortable, these kind of run-ins are few and far between and have never escalated beyond a nuisance. I've had WAY worse in other countries, trust me. In fact, China is probably the most low-key country I've been to when it comes to getting harassed on the street. Still, it's a weird thing being propositioned in broad daylight. But don't go feeling sorry for me, the ones who get it the worst are the decent Russian girls who come here to make an honest living. Number 5 : It's Showtime!Wow, have you really read to the bottom of my answer? I'm flattered! I hope you've gotten some insights into what it's like to be a Caucasian foreign woman in China. While there are some crazy things that can happen, in a nutshell being a foreign woman here means you have many great advantages, and a few minor annoyances. I wanted to end with this idea of being on TV to demonstrate just how cool it can be in China as a woman. Due to the fact that foreign women are still the oddballs here, people often jump at the chance to grab an audience's attention by having our faces on advertisements, billboards and TV shows. If you've ever wanted to be a star and loved by millions, China is the easiest place to do it. I've been offered quite a few modeling jobs and I'm 5' 7"! I'd recommend any woman to come to China and see for herself. It's safe, it's a great learning experience, and you'll definitely take some stories home with you. Remember, if you have any more questions for me about life in China. Go to the podcast link above and ask me ANYTHING! Or you can see what I'm up to at the software company here at: Written Chinese 
What does it feel like to be a woman living in China?I’m a Shanghainese woman so…… I noticed I shouldn’t be complaining about life. Because if I do, many people will tell me to go to hell. One easy way to tell about a woman's life is to look at the man next to her. And Shanghainese men are famous known for:The Versatile Ma Da SaoMa da dao is Shanghainese slang meaning, “shop, wash, cook.”The exception is when the term is used to describe men in Shanghai — guys who don’t just shop, wash and cook, but famously do so without complaint…..The Professional Bag CarrierWhen shopping with her Shanghainese boyfriend or husband (yes, Shanghai men shop, remember “ma” from point number one?) the Shanghai female doesn’t need to carry any bags, including her own petite purse….Family PrideChatting with a married Western man, you may need to wait hours before he mentions his wife. Chatting with a married Shanghainese man, you may need to wait hours before he stops talking about his wife…..ToleranceThe relationship between mother and daughter-in-law is like an active volcano in the Middle Marriage Kingdom. But the Shanghai husband’s legendary tolerance can single-handedly turn a lava flow into a pile of dead ashes, or a volcano to be enjoyed and admired like Mt. Fuji…….Masculinity in DisguiseShanghainese men simply see it as their responsibility to provide their families with a wealthy life. Their outlook is, “I’ll make all the money and deal with all the ‘bei-ju,'” a internet phrase in China meaning “everything tragic.”…..[Shanghai men]These might be considered “whipped” by outsiders, but a Shanghainese man will tell you proudly that it’s their pleasure. (No kidding) The superpowers of Shanghai husbands allow them to actually have fun in malls and salons.One Shanghai government official once openly stated: “We Shanghai men not only know the importance of supporting the family financially, but we also know the importance of emotional support and always show consideration to our wives.”How did the relationship between Shanghainese men and women evolved into today?Honestly, I don’t know. Everything just seems so natural in Shanghai. (I’d be happy to hear what everybody thinks….)
I don't know about being a Chinese woman in China (and I think Faye Wang perfectly answered the question) but I can tell you about being a western expat woman living in China, in Shanghai in particular.In my experience, living in China as a woman was very different on one point: safety. Shanghai is pretty safe when you're an expat, a woman in particular, and it really changed my life as I was not afraid of going out late at night, alone and wearing a skirt. I'm sure some people will disapprove as I obviously do not represent the majority of woman in China, but it is something that we shared with my girlfriends there. You can go out in the weirdest district but nobody would tease you or hit on you, same thing in the country when I visited Yunnan or Shanxi.Finally, maybe I feel this way because Paris is not so safe anymore for ladies, but it was really appreciable not to have guys hitting on us all day and being rude.
I spent my early years in a prefecture level city. I may have been one of the luckiest little girls in the world, because my dad used to say "you are a human being first, a woman second. Don't ever let anyone look down on you because of your gender." He made sure my extended family treated me with the same respect they gave to the male cousins.I don't live in China now, but I still go back quite frequently. I'm so optimistic seeing the emergence of the independent women who ask themselves "what do I want to accomplish with my career? who am I and what do I stand for as an individual?" - something that rarely existed for my parents' generation. But at the same time, these same women ask me "is it possible for a feminine woman to do that?" This is for tasks like negotiating effectively, or coming out on top of traditionally male / or any field.This concept of "feminine woman" seems to be causing a mental glass ceiling for these women. I suspect many of the self made, white collar women have been dumped or shafted from romantic relationships because they come off as "non feminine" or "too intense". The recent PR campaign "Leftover Women (http://en.wikipedia.org/(wiki/Sheng_nu) shaming independent single women didn't help either. I wish I could make these women understand that they are more beautiful and stronger than they have ever given themselves credit for.Despite the down sides, I think the status of women in China is better than it has ever been. And maybe one day soon we can all celebrate the beautiful, independent, successful Chinese woman.
It means you are speechless. It’s abbreviation of 我勒个去, which is origins from northeast dialect.To translate, I’d prefer HOLY SHIT! Only that 我去 is more mild, and sounds less rude.
depends on context.“谁去买酱油？”（anybody buy me some soybean sauce?）“我去。”（I’ll go/ do it.）“冰箱门又没关！”（you left fridge door open, again!）“我去！”（*in regret* oops…）“我车子撞了。”（my car crushed.）“我去！”（*in surprise* what?）“国足今天又他妈输了。”（national soccer team just had another epic fail today. ）“我去！”（holy shit!）
It depends on the context.①我去=I will goeg. -今天下午你去图书馆吗？(Will you go to the library this afternoon ?)-是的，我去。(Yes, I will go. )②我去=Wow.In this situation, it means “赞叹”,etc.eg. -小明期末考试得了第一名。(Xiaoming is the number one in the final examination. )-我去。他太棒了！(Wow.He is great !)③我去=Gosh/unbelievable.In this situation, it means “amazed ”or “incredible”,etc.eg. -小明期末考试得了第一名。(Xiaoming is the number one in the final examination. )-我去。这不可能！(Unbelievable. It is impossible! )④我去=YuckIn this situation,“我去”means “reluctant ”or “speechless ”,etc.eg. -今天轮到你打扫卫生了。(It is your turn to clean up today. )-我去。我还要很多其他的事情要做呢！(Yuck. I have many other things to do! )English and Chinese are two different languages though, they also have same points . Reading more will help you to understand Chinese more deeply.I hope this answer will help you ~
The original meaning is “I will go for it”.Because of the development of internet, the young ages use this word as a totally different meaning. It is like the word “gee” or “what the hell”.
Just like “卧槽”,“我操”,“what the fuck” it is an oral impolite expression, used in many places. For example:you are surprised by something unbelievable, thrilling or disgusting.a saw,especially used by iron lady, 女汉子
I want to clarify two points before give my answer. Firstly, a bad government does not necessarily mean that the government wants to hurt its people intentionally, and vise versa. So I would regard what the government had done as bad if its consequences hurt people no matter what the intention is. Secondly, all Chinese leaders in modern Chinese history do have the same dream of “making China great again (MCGA)” based on their traditional education that the Chinese culture used to be the greatest and an educated Chinese is dutiful to work for China, and this MCGA is of course mixed with different personal world views and ambitions. So I’ll try to answer the question with a brief analysis to begin with on why and how things of China happened to be this way with a reminder now and then on what a thinking might have been involved.Modern day Chinese government started in 1911 after the Uprising of October 10, 1911. Five national flags had changed in Mainland China since as showing below. With each flag change there was a major social change behind, but all changes were somehow connected to MCGA based on Chinese thinking. I’ll make my case with a chronological account of the major events along with flag changes.Flag A （1889–1911）: Qing dynasty (1644–1912), an empire that had a territory three times of the precedent Ming Dynasty, was a creation of Manchus who came from the north of the Great Wall and conquered Ming Dynasty of Han Chinese in 1644 (figure below, left) without using a national flag officially until 1889 since national flag was a western concept. Under constant pressure from both inside and outside, the empire, as a fully recognized sovereignty by the West and having had numerous conflicts with European powers, finally sent official delegates in 1905 to Europe and America to check the Western world out and announced its plan to transform the Dynasty to constitutional monarchy in 1906 as a result. The dynasty published The Outline of Imperial Constitution three years later. But the reform fell short and the dynasty was ended after another three years after its announcement of the Constitution outline. The ruling people simply didn’t have the way of thinking to figure out what was truly wrong with their system and how to save the decaying dynasty.Flag B （1911.10–1912.1）: The 1911 Revolution to overthrow Qing broke off on October 10, and a stratocracy was established next day in WuChang. It has been acknowledged as the beginning of Republic of China (ROC), and their national flag, the first one for ROC, was this “18 ball-star” flag (also the picture above, right), a reflection of the revolutionaries’ ideal of reinstating Han people’s rule of the 18 provinces, the territory of Ming Dynasty. Specifically their ideal was “ to expel the Tatar barbarians (驱逐鞑虏), to Revive Chinese Society (Zhonghua) (恢复中华)”. Zhonghua meant the Han dynasty both culturally and territorially at that time and was formally proposed in 1895 by the revolutionaries .Flag C (1912–1928): The 1911 Revolution was an unexpected easy win for the revolutionaries. Within seven weeks following the uprising 15 out of the 18 provinces, the territory of Ming Dynasty, announced independence from Qing. The 13th Dalai Lama, who was in exile in India after Qing emperor stripped his title resulting from a dispute, also announced Tibet independence from Qing after the Uprising. He came back next year (or in 1913) and made an announcement of Tibet independence again; and Mongolians announced independence on 12/28, 1911 as well. However, among the revolutionaries those who wanted to inherit Qing dynasty won the debate over those who only wanted to “revive Zhonghua”. On the first day of 1912, ROC was formally announced to have been established and the flag was changed to this “five-colored”, representing a republic of five peoples: Hans, Manchus, Mongols, Tibetans, and Muslims (Hui 回). Han people, who used to overthrew the huge Mongol-ruled Yuan Dynasty and revived Han dynasty of Ming by expelling Mongols out of their proper, now were no longer following their ancestors to revive Han dynasty by expelling Manchus out China proper. Rather, they inherited this huge Manchu dynasty entirely without putting up much fight. The flag showed their ambition. They believed that they would build a new republic to make the MCGA dream come true. However, counting for 95% of the total population, they never seriously consulted with other non-Han leaders of the four big minorities about the ruling of this new republic yet still an inherited empire, and most of them still believed that those minorities were barbarians. ROC consequently denied both Tibetan and Mongolian independence claims by including both areas in its Provisional Constitution of the Republic of China launched in March, 1912.It was a turning point for the history of Han Chinese, for they had to think for the first time about everything not only happening in their proper but in the areas as twice large as their proper inhabited with only other minorities who didn’t speak/write Han language/characters, nor worship Confucius but their own gods, and their economy was based not on tilling but grazing. Manchu emperors ruled Han people thru adapting Han culture and other non-Han people thru Tribute System, in which the emperor’s power quickly waned with the increase of distance between him and his subjects which in effect allowed self ruling. Although ROC’s sovereignty over Tibet and Mongolia was internationally recognized, still, in 1924 came the first blow to ROC: Mongolian People's Republic was declared to be independent with Soviet Russia’s support that was first rejected by ROC but finally warranted twenty years later through a treaty between MPR and Soviet Russia in 1945. The treaty also permanently separated outer Mongolia from inner Mongolia allowing the latter stay within ROC. In 1946 ROC formally accepted MPR, the size of ROC was down by about 15% in Han people’s eyes.Flag D (1915.12.15–1916.03.22): A short but very important time for only about 100 days. Key words for this 100 days: ROC was put in constitutional crisis within three months by one of her founders after its birth and the republic empire failed in her beginning.After the Uprising of October 1911, the forced-out military strongman Yuan Shi-kai was called back to rescue Qing empire and became the number one man being the Premier. His troops made the rebellions----the ROC union of the independent provinces----under check, and both sides started to make deal under British mediation. Both agreed to let the Qing go and to start a Han ruling empire, and Yuan would be the president because he was the only one able to hold up the stake. In December 1911 Sun Yat-sen, the leader of anti-Qing Han revolutionaries but not the actual leader of 1911 Revolution came to China from his exile. Sun let his followers elect him provisional president on Dec. 29, 1911. It annoyed Yuan obviously, and even New York Times was surprised in its report of Dec. 31, 1911: “Dr. Sun's election, occurring simultaneously with the peace delegates agreeing to refer the form of government to the convention, indicates a lack of harmony among the republicans, which partly stultifies the work of Dr. Wu Ting-Fang and apparently violates the understanding with Yuan Shi-Kai.” (Wu was the first British educated Chinese Barrister grown up in Qing dynasty.)Yuan immediately pulled his representative out of the talk. It apparently pressed Sun to publically announce on Jan. 21 and 22, 1912, that he was only doing the job for the time being and would step down to let Yuan be the president as soon as the Qing Emperor had abdicated. The talk was resumed and both sides agreed to peacefully transfer to republic with Yuan promising to persuade Qing to surrender the ruling power. The Empress Dowager Longyu announced Abdication on behalf of the last Emperor to yield ruling power to Han people on Feb. 12, 1912. The outgoing Empress surely in fear of being mistreated made it clear in this fewer than 400-character Abdication that the power was going to the Han representative, her Premier Yuan Shikai, to organize a new republic government.However, Sun controlled Nanjing congress made the Provisional Constitution on March 8 and approved and announced by the stepping down Sun on March 11, the same day Yuan augmented as the president. As the historian Tong Tekong describes, “This Provisional Constitution, which has deeply influenced the modern history of China, …(has) changed the format of government from American Presidency to French Parliament. Its provision of presidency makes the premier directly report to the congress not the president, and, thus, the president becomes only a state symbol. Sun announces it on March 11, 1912……This design is obviously created to restrain Yuan. He is not going to have the power like Sun did.” (My translation of quote from 《袁氏治国》by Tong Tekong, 2004)The ROC inevitably fell into constitutional crisis immediately as a new republic empire that desperately needed a strong government to make the transfer from a Confucian faith-state tyranny to a rule-of-law republic while Yuan's hands were tied up. Without Yuan’s leadership, all local strongmen thought that this republic was a joke, or a game for power. ROC lost its critical first two years to set its footing. The entire politics was a circus to the people simply showing that democratic freedom as a brand new ideal was a chaos but nothing else. This experience and understanding of democracy has continued in many Chinese minds to this day.After a chaotic period for a little more than three and half a year since his presidency, Yuan, advised by his advisers, the renowned American legal scholar Frank Johnson Goodnow (…known for his assertion that the Chinese people were not mature enough for a democratic form of government—a position that was later utilized by Yuan, as he attempted to proclaim himself the Emperor of China in 1915-6.), and his Japanese adviser Aruga Nagao (有贺长雄, the first Japanese Nobel prize nominee), had a showdown with Sun’s party and decided to reform the republic empire. In December, 1915, Yuan announced his reform—-to change the system to constitutional monarchy with the name Empire of China with regnal year Hongxian (洪宪), meaning “grand constitutional”. But it was beyond the understanding of ordinary Chinese who never heard anything in such that an emperor would be living and ruling under constitution. They just wanted not to see another emperor crown on any of their new rulers, regardless. ——A lesson definitely learned by all later Chinese leaders whoever ruled China ever since: Never bear emperor title to rule no matter what the reality is.Yuan publicly withdrew his plan and apologized to his people 100 days later. He died on the 6th day of June, 1916, after failing to bring the system under control, only bearing a name of “arch-usurper of state power” recorded in history books still taught in today’s China. Sun continued to fight for power to modernize China under him by starting “third revolution” .Flag E (1928–1949 in Mainland; –present in Taiwan): Sun started a new party, Chinese Revolutionary Party (CRP), the pre-KMT. He asked party members to be absolutely loyal to him, even claimed, “ …without me any pursuit of republic or democracy has to end in its opposite side. I must ask every comrade to obey me for I’m pursuing the revolution (for the nation). You would be deadly wrong as soon as you doubted about your obedience. You people simply have so limited knowledge and experience, so you go nowhere except following me without asking any questions.” (My translation of quote from A Memoir of the Era of Chinese Revolutionary Party 1989《中华革命党时代的回忆》by Ju Zheng.) Sun’s CRP transformed to KMT in 1919, two years before Chinese Communist Party was created.In 1923 KMT under Sun received financial and military aid from Soviet Union after Sun had repeatedly failed to find aids from western countries and Japan. KMT held its first Nationalist Congress in 1924, claiming to represent all political classes in its struggle for the unification of China. KMT reorganized to adopt key organizational features of the Soviet communist party. Sun allowed CCP members to join KMT and increasingly used ideology as a means to centralize the power of KMT. It’s Sun who started following the Soviets to set Anti-Imperialism as the primary goal of Chinese revolution, and he was the one who first used the term Unequal Treaties to prove the Chinese humiliation by International Imperialism. His student and successor Chiang Kai-shek reunified China in 1928 by defeating all the “running dogs of Imperialism,” the local warlords. He changed Sun’s policy of collaboration with CCP and crackdowned CCP in 1927. He now became another “running dog of imperialism” called by CCP, a party more revolutionarily radical, but his teacher Sun has been regarded as the Founding Father of Modern China by both parties.Chiang’s fight against CCP was doomed after Sino-Japanese war broke off in 1937. As the historian Anthony James Joes puts, “The Japaneses war devastated the Nationalists forces, revived the Communist party, and thus changed the history of the world.” (Resisting Rebellion: The History and Politics of Counterinsurgency, 2006) But Chiang insisted following Sun’s ideology. At the end of WWII, seeing the dawn of Japanese defeat, Chiang Kai-Shek published his China’s Destiny and brought up the Unequal Treaties magic again to fuel up nationalism to support his rule but ignored internal reforms. The corrupted KMT rule ended in 1949 after a three year long bloody civil war between KMT and CCP.During Chiang’s rule Xinjiang Muslims rebelled in 1933 (First East Turkestan Republic). Ten years later, Muslims, encouraged and organized by the Soviet Union, rebelled at Ili. It lasted to 1949 and the rebellions turned to CCP for support against Nationalists. Second East Turkestan Republic was short lived during the rebellion but its influence continued to this day among Xinjiang Muslims.Flag F (1949-present, in Mainland): After PRC was created in 1949, the Nationalist State system was replaced with Communist State system in Mainland China. CCP’s rule of China during Mao era was Stalinist style plus Mao’s destructive thinking in the construction of PRC. By the time of Mao’s death the GDP of PRC was less than 5% of the world’s against its 22% world population, which made per capita GDP of China at a level of a little more than a fifth of the world’s. (table below, Loren Brandt et al, 2014)Led by Mao China joined USSR bloc and fought against America in N. Korea and Viet Nam, had border conflicts with India and USSR, and was in war with Viet Nam after Mao’s death. Conflicts between Han ruling and Tibet and Xinjiang minorities have remained as the main concerns of the government from time to time, including Dalai Lama’s escape to India in 1959.China’s industrialization before Reform was a copy of Soviet model. Over one hundred thirty Key Projects mostly of heavy industry were most completed aided by Soviets. China also developed nuke bombs and launched satellite while having an undeveloped economy. A great famine broke up at the end of 1950s thru the beginning two years of 1960s that perished millions of lives. Mao started Cultural Revolution in 1966 to continue his pursuit of MCGA mixed with his Marxism and never had China’s social norms reinstalled until his death in 1976.After Mao’s death Economic Reform started in late 1970s internally and extended externally in early 1980s. China reopened to the world and the reform eventually led to the abandonment of communism practice in PRC but the country did not change its flag for the first time in past 100 years after a major social transformation. China had made her first remarkable social change essentially peacefully for ten years until Tiananmen Square protests of 1989. But the country didn’t stop its economic reform and its per capita GDP has grown from ~20% to 116% of the world average, ranking at ~80th in 2014. Chinese economy now is the second largest after pooling in all of its 20% world population.To summarize, I would draw some factual conclusions based on this very brief review of China’s past 100 years:1. There have been many Chinese leaders who all wanted to live up to this MCGA in past 100 years with personal marks. Sun, a typical example as widely revered and as reviled, gave MCGA a personal interpretation for all Chinese and moved forward with measures undermined the first Chinese republic. Deng, who was one of many Mao’s students and comrades, reopened China which led to the great success of Chinese economic development but the abandonment of communism unintentionally. Today’s China is at her apex in Chinese history although its per capita GDP is still behind many countries. Never before there were so many Chinese who could enjoy a quality life like now. China’s new leader now is apparently taking MCGA personal again. So China’s future will largely determined by his own MCGA interpretation.2. Modern China is an inheritance of Qing Empire although the ruling people Han are not the conquerors. However, after Han’s ruling became no more a Tribute System, PRC itself has been bearing characteristics of imperialism. During Mao era this characteristics had been managed thru “class struggle” but evolved to a conflict between Han and other major minorities after “class struggle” was discarded. The fundamental cultural differences between Han and other minorities have not been diminished thru 100 year long Han ruling, and Han people’s MCGA hasn’t been transformed to becoming other minorities’ dream which is clearly shown in China’s social and economic development that mostly is in the region of southeastern but not in northwestern China.3. The MCGA dream is rooted in traditional thinking but has not evolved along with China’s industrialization to a Chinese Modernity. The theory of Sun has helped Han Chinese keep China united but also created nationalism that blamed China’s misery on the Western capitalism and led China to choosing Russian Leninism. Its practice in China caused Chinese people tens millions of lives and put Chinese economic development on hold for 27 years.4. The failure of China’s early republic experiment has been imposing a huge negative impact on Chinese people’s view of democracy and keeping haunting them, which in combination with China’s imperialist characteristics has been strangling China to an emotional tangle. Restrained by the way of Chinese thinking together with decades long twisted education, it becomes a somewhat popular Chinese view that there are always hostile forces out there who only want to destroy China. This ghost can come out to play at government’s will to shift the attention of the public to Chinese problems.5. China’s economic development in past 35 years is a great achievement. This achievement has made the MCGA dream never so close to come true. It’s no question that the achievement is attributed to the work of Chinese people. However, it is to a large extent misinterpreted in ignoring the fact that it is a part of the modernization of entire human civilization. To over emphasize this great achievement as the inevitable renaissance of ancient Chinese civilization creates a blind pride blocking people from seeing what human Modernity is really about and from recognizing the problems with Chinese culture. It will only slow down the development of critical thinking and consequently make it more difficult to find solutions to existing historic Chinese issues.Finally, What makes Chinese government a bad government? I believe, that the leaders of Chinese government keep thinking in a traditional way in their effort to make MCGA come true often becomes what makes Chinese government a bad government as shown in modern Chinese history. China has never been so strong and resourceful but the traditional thinking cannot evolve with the fast progress of Chinese society and the world modernization. China’s government is ruling her with great fear in my view which is inherited from the history and enforced thru self victimized education to Chinese people. The 1.4 billion Chinese people should not only be the labors of the world factory but also part of the brain pool of entire human race, including the non-Han Chinese, to think freely. It won’t happen until Chinese leaders are free from traditional way of thinking.*Edit: After seeing it viewed by over 3k times I decided to come to correct some errors and comment on my claim in the last sentence. Obviously it is rhetorical if every Chinese leader only comes from Chinese people. Therefore, I think that we can only say that the ruling of Chinese government will change with time when people make changes with their thinking. I know that I might be wrong. So I truly welcome critics and appreciate different thoughts.**Edit: I made correction on Chinese GDP calculations. Now I would like to add my perspective on the MCGA as to what it really means in order to clarify questions by the reader related to it. Probably nobody knows exactly what the contents of MCGA are because it is basically a subjective wishful thinking that was initially based on “Chinese Humiliation” . The humiliation was real, yet the question was who to blame on for the misery. Through late Qing dynasty and early ROC years Chinese elites commonly believed that the Chinese culture itself was the root cause of the problem and the culture needed to be modernized. The thinking was changed after Sun Yat-sen turned to Soviet Russia for help and formally announced in Sun–Joffe Manifesto at the beginning of 1923. Sun since modified his Three Principles of the People in which his first principle Nationalism (MinZu 民族) was no longer “to expel the Tatar barbarians (驱逐鞑虏), to Revive Chinese Society (Zhonghua) (恢复中华)”, but to unify China and maintain its independency through the course of Anti-Imperialism. Obviously it fitted the the new ROC, an inherited Qing empire, by attributing all Chinese problems to Western powers’ bullying. Chinese culture itself was spared but a victim of Western invasion. After the showdown between the more radical revolutionary CCP and KMT, Confucianism was replaced by Communism in Mainland after KMT was eventually defeated. Thirty years later after communist practice failed in PRC it logically led to the belief that communism must be the problem. Now, after achieving its great economic development, China is returning to the point to catch the culprit again. The answer is obvious if Sun’s theory still holds up to Chinese leaders. Or else, if their way of thinking has changed because Sun’s theory can’t hold up any more when being scrutinized differently.
A lot of answers here suggest that it's very hard to define a good/bad government, but I would say it's surprisingly simple.Historically, China’s government should take care of its people, and the emperor should be kind but decisive, leading his people to make the proper decision under tough circumstances. Sounds pretty much like every government should do, right? The most significant difference between China's good government and the West’s is that China's government doesn't work on (capitalist) social contract. The emperor works more like a family member of his citizens.Nowadays, different people have different values for judging if the government is good or not. Based on corruption, regulation and many other reasons, liberals believe China should adopt the Western political system as soon as possible. Meanwhile, conservatives believe the country should stay as it is for a while and see if this system and its evolved version can still work in the future. After all it has been working well in the past few decades.Liberals may tell you that China's current government is bad, but conservatives may tell you that it is actually pretty good. It all depends on who you're with.This is a pretty good thing. Plurality, if carefully managed, can keep people mentally agile. Luckily, China doesn't have some kind of political correctness or universal political standard yet, prompting the country to carefully think more about the future of itself.
Considering the large population, the current government definitely did a great job there.By the way, this question itself is not referenced to a sufficiently correct fact. That indicates some mystery motivations, and to some extents, this question just simply twist China government being bad, which is an infringement of first rule of quora. Please reformat this one, cheers.
I think the question is not a proper one.Since the one who asked the question has already had a preconceived idea that Chinese government is a bad government,and he just turned to quora to find someone who can support his idea with some clues to make himself convinced that he is right.Whether Chinese government is a bad government is a question without answer.Actually it's not proper to evaluate a government with a word such as good or bad.Maybeit's no a big problem to comment on its behaviors with such words.we can say that the Chinese government did a unpleasant job before 1980s,it made many mistakes and didn't make the country coming to a prosperous future in the right direction.Though,it did make some contribution to the country’s development,it should have done more.After that period,china has gone such a long way to a bright future and is still on the way to be better.Compared with governments of other countrys in the near twenty years,what the Chinese government has done is good enough.Whether the Chinese government will continue doing a good job in the future is unknown.Lets watch for the next decade.
Disregarding the semantics about democracy, freedom of speech, rules of law, etc, etc, there’s one fundamental difference between Chinese government and the more ‘enlightened’ western democratic government, and this difference is what makes the Chinese government ‘bad’.The Chinese government can make an individual utterly and completely powerless.Imagine you are a disgruntled individual that was wronged by the government/institutions, and you are out to seek justice. You will find the mission near impossible in China. The various governmental bodies ensure individual odd-balls of the society are isolated, silenced and forgotten. This has been so for thousands of years across hundreds of dynasties. This is the price the ruling class of China has to and willing to pay, because the Chinese ruling class values stability and harmony above all else, and the Chinese culture is all about collectivism vs. individualism.When you are a law-abiding citizen working along side the government, you will find all your needs met, grievances addressed and opinions heard. But as soon as you veer off from this path, you will find yourself enclosed, trapped, muted and forgotten.Now in comparison, if you were a wronged individual in a more ‘enlightened’ western democratic society, you can always find ways to be heard, and there’s always someone willing to listen. There’s plenty state and private watchdogs, ombudsmen, overseers to voice your disagreement to and plenty of lawyers you can employ. If all else fails, there’s privately owned media you can go to as well.In other words, it is a terrible terrible business to be the odd one out in China, not so much in a western democratic country.There’s a reason why overwhelming number of Chinese Quorans are in praise of Chinese government, it’s because those are the ones being fulfilled, they are content and they are what the government is working for and working with.Majority of Chinese willingly choose to forgo the assurance that one day they might fall short of the government’s good graces and get stuck in the rut, because they want tangible benefits here and now. Whereas for an average westerner, he/she is NOT willing to forgo that assurance because who knows one day they might need it.In a twisted way, Chinese government is probably the most democratic of them all, because it gives what most people want, not what the few needs.
Why is suppression of ‘Free speech’ by the Chinese government so acceptable to the Chinese people?Opinions about CCP in Quora seem to suggest that Chinese people are quite content with CCP. Now, I am not arguing for democracy or against the Chinese system, but I cannot understand how can anyone find being disallowed the right to express opinion or protest against politicians acceptable?The best defense for Free Speech in China is to Always Speak the Truth. If you are insulted by the Chinese government, publicize it on the web and you’ll get every citizen behind you.But the Chinese are not OK to be lied to. Not by the Chinese Government, not by other Chinese people, not by any foreign Government or foreigners. And not by you. You may call that ‘Free Speech’. The Chinese call it lies, and demand their government to shut you up.The Chinese are also not OK to be grossly insulted.In 2008, China suffered a magnitude 7.9 earthquake in her western mountainous region. Close to 90,000 people died. Mothers desperately tried to shield their children with their own bodies, and died entombed together. The mother was still tenderly holding her child.Sharon Stone, dressed in all her sparkles and finery, stood on the red carpet of Cannes, called it ‘karma’. China angry over Sharon Stone quake karma remarkHundreds of millions of Chinese demanded the Chinese government to ban her films and any merchandise associated with her. If this is what ‘Free Speech’ means, the Chinese don’t want it.You want to know why the Chinese not only support the Chinese government’s censorship, but demand it? Because it’s so obvious, OBVIOUS, that the likes of Sharon Stone are not on their side. You have someone literally laughing when 90,000 Chinese died in an earthquake, and then coming up with crocodile tears about ‘oh we have to fight for the poor Chinese who don’t have free speech’. The Chinese government, on the other hand, quickly mobilized 130,000 soldiers and other relief workers to attempt rescue, of which, around 200 rescuers died from ensuing aftershocks and mudslides. They gave their lives for the Chinese people.Sichuan earthquake of 2008 | ChinaWhen you call hate speech ‘free speech’, you make people hate free speech.PS: This is not an isolated event. This kind of sh*t happens continuously, and not just towards Chinese, but a continuous stream of random insult to almost any foreign country. Even the Swedes, the mellowest of all, are threatening to “go full fascist on them Yanks and ban them all”. King of Sweden stresses need for ‘serious’ media and source checking after Donald Trump’s immigration claims
Chinese people aren't OK with the censorship. People make fun of the “keyword” censorship all the time, mocking the key words with stupid alternatives. People comment on how their social media posts were removed. If someone spoke up against the government and was threatened, people will show support by reposting screenshots of their deleted words (which are harder to regulate).Just because people don't give up their life and throw themselves into some bloody resistance movement, doesn't mean they accept bad government policies.But western media doesn't report this. Chinese people making fun of their government doesn't make nearly as appealing a click-bait headline as “Chinese people intentionally kill car accident victims”.Think of it in this way: you have a life, you have a family, you have a future. And the government removes a post from your Facebook. Would you throw away everything you have to fight against the government? Even if you want to, how are you going to go about doing it? Where will you find this “underground rebel force"? Is it worth it? To give up your life, family and future, a stable job and relatively pleasant life because of one removed Facebook comment?If you won’t do it, why do you think Chinese people should do it? Because of some idealistic bullshit idea that the Chinese government is evil and there should be a bloody revolution? Why don't Chinese stand up against oppression? Why don't Russians stand up against oppression? Why don't other people stand up against oppression because you think standing up against oppression is romantic?You don't know about China. Most westerners don't, and most westerners have this rosy idea about what revolution is… hence questions like this.
Why do educated Chinese support the CCP?Because actual educated Chinese know that the CCP was single handedly responsible for turning a dirt poor backwater nation into a mighty economic superpower lifting 600 Million people out of poverty within a span of 3 decades. Without the CCP, China would have been a weak, fragmented nation.These educated people also know that the West’s criticism of China’s human rights some part cultural imperialism and some part a ploy to weaken and destabilize China. A weak fragmented China unable to challenge Western value hegemony, is ultimately in the West’s interests.The second part of your question asserts that the Chinese cannot criticize their politicians. That is a flagarant lie. Fact of the matter is, Chinese do vehemently complain about corruption and criticize policies. The only time the CCP forbids speech is when it may lead to instigation to riot, protest and destabilize any part of the nation. “Democracy, human rights” should never be a cover for destabilizing a nation, fragmenting it and making it poor.
Why do educated Chinese support CCP despite not having the freedom to criticize Chinese politicians?On August 28th, 2016, I received the following text message from the Chinese Government:党和政府庄严承诺：不让一个学生因家庭经济困难而失学！从学前儿童到研究生，都能享受国家资助政策。详情查询全国学生资助管理中心网站。【教育部宣、工信部、中国移动】The Party and the Government solemnly promise: we will not allow a single student to drop out of school because of economic reasons. From preschool to graduate school, everyone can enjoy state funds to pay for his/her education. For more details, visit National Student Financial Aids Administration website [message by Department of Education, Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, China Mobile]The CPC is promising to give education to everyone who wants it. If they pull this off, we are talking about personal empowerment through education at every level of the society. The day that everyone in China who want a decent education can get one, I will convert to the CPC's biggest fan ever.Of course, there is always a catch to any rosy promises made by politicians. I actually tried to visit the website to take a look, but the website is an epic fail. It couldn’t handle all the traffic going to the site. So, a poor student can't really visit the site for more information.A few months later, I had a conversation about this text message with a friend who works for PwC US in China. He studied Computer Science at Tongji University, one of China's best, and he came from a humble background. He was on state money all his way through college. It paid for his tuition, but he had to eat, and that's not part of the no-one-drops-out deal. Luckily, university canteens are heavily subsidized by the Chinese Government. My friend was able to support himself working part-time in the summer loading bricks at a Shanghai construction site.So, I wondered, if the website for state funds doesn't work, how the heck did he receive his money for tuition. It turns out, the Chinese Government relies on schools, and local government officials to nominate state fund recipients. Given low technology literacy across China, I guess having a functioning website wouldn't make much a difference, but it still would be nice to have a place for information online.I can't speak for 1.4 billion of my fellow Chinese compatriots, but I am not as antiestablishment as I used to be because I think China is heading toward the right direction, and marginal improvements to the system are what we need, certainly not that democratic revolution crap.On a side note, it bugs me that we have a GFW, but hey I know a thing or two about Linux command line. The CPC can’t stop me from using Shadowsocks to watch Marcus Butler doing an American accent on YouTube.I hope my reflection on the topic sort of answers your question.
On one hand, the question itself is unwarranted, Chinese people do have the freedom to criticize the government which is already explained in other comments.One the other hand, even though Chinese people don’t have this so-called free speech, why can’t they still support the government any way? What I want to say is the FREE SPEECH is just not that important, nobody is living on criticizing the government, people enjoy their own lives and who cares that much about what the hell the government is doing. Chinese people see that their lives are getting better and better, the funtamental constrution is doing well, they recieve better education and become richer day by day. These are the things people really care about.And in fact, in many parts of the western world, the free speech is superficial, is fake and useless. Ok, you can say whatever you want, but you are a fool and never count on that I will listen to you. In this sense, the free speech is like satisfaction to yourself.And, there is no real free speech in western world if you criticize people of different color of skin, different religous belives, and what if there are really some big problems in them? You can’t even say that out and never mention even solve them.What does the free speech really mean to you?And if this comment is deleted some time later, it will be a solid evidence that the western free speech is so lame.
We as human beings are generally drawn to things that are different from us. I think China is one of the countries least touched by the wave of globalization. They still have thousands of years of traditions that they hold onto so very dearly.The Food – The Chinese does everything differently. Their foods usually lack spice (which is taken separately if needed most of the time) in order to retain the flavor of the actual meat. But having said that I have had beef that was spicier than a Colombian dish. The variations of Chinese food are endless. Don’t be misled by the Chinese Restaurants in your country because that is definitely no match for what you will get in Mainland China.The People – The Chinese are known for their hard-work, efficiency and productivity. But that’s just the tip of the iceberg. They are the nicest and most helpful people I have seen in all my travel destinations. I was once on my way to meet someone I worked with in China and my transit got delayed by two hours. She closed the shop because I was too late, but stayed back for me to come by. Much to my surprise, I found her standing on the side of the road near the office waiting patiently. It took a long time to get through everything I needed to discuss with her. And alas, it was 1:30 in the morning when we finished up. That wasn’t the end. She invited me to have dinner with her and we all sat down, talking about how different China is from the rest of the world. With the transit back to her place and everything she would have gotten roughly an hour or two of sleep before work the next day. I don’t know how many qualities I have just talked about but all of them remarkably exceptional.The Places – Chinese Architecture is something different to what you will see in most places. Usually in the non-business centers of China. Henan Province comes to mind. The amount of ancient architecture that you will see there at any given point in time is mind boggling. China is also home to thousands of museums, each of them consisting of significant counterparts that make up for the entire lifeline of China.Diversity – I was once like most people who have never been to China. I thought that everything in China is interchangeable. But I was amazed by how much diversity I got from one city to the next. It was quite baffling how the lifestyle and the aesthetics change. In comparison the only place I could think of right now is Turkey.But all in all you just have to get there and see for yourself. I can write more, but it would not do justice to how beautiful China truly is. I hope everyone sees it that way.Passion Project - Planetgraphy | Facebook (Just for Travel Inspiration)
They are many reasons foreigners move to China. Many for its rich exotic ancient culture, many for its eccentric diversity among the country. Hospitality, tremendous amount of opportunities and the list can continue. But I will share my fair share.Population - China is 1.357 Billion yet it manages to keep its stability among its citizens. That’s a pure work of Art. It feeds its people, it promotes education, it invests in its people’s future and I think the government here is doing a fantastic job of keeping the country together.Fastest growing economy - The country was illiterate, poor and backward compared to the rest of the world up until a few decades ago, but that changed and it's changing so fast. It’s simply fascinating.Moral values - China is a collective culture, where family values, community, and everyone matters. They work hard for ultimate one goal to make the country better for the future generation. I have never seen such people so passionate and devoted to their country in the 21st century. The Chinese traditional cultural values of harmony, benevolence, righteousness,courtesy, wisdom, honesty, and loyalty.Life experience - My everyday work is a life lesson, a challenge, a new experience and a new beginning. People appreciate my hard work here as a foreigner. They do not take my work for granted and they actually appreciate for what I do for them.Entertainment - China offers the unlimitted amount of entertainment, leisure and numerous different activities for having fun. The nightclubs here are giants stadiums with IMAX 3D screen, they have things like escape rooms, unbelievable theme parks, outdoor natural parks and much more.Affordable high-quality life - If you’re professional expat, life in China can be rewarding. The economy is booming and they are a lot of opportunities available. There’s a high demand for educated professionals who are willing to step out of their comfort zone.People - Unconditional kindness, integration of the locals with foreigners, tolerance and acceptance and cheap travel within the country and Asia with high-speed train or affordable airfare are all many reasons why expats choose to live here.\If you’re serious about your career and would like to make an impact in the world. I believe China is a great destination. I am learning so many new things here, basically, you have the freedom in China to innovate, be articulate and design new ways of doing things.I love China 我爱中国
I have an answer for this that some you find ironic:The Freedom they Experience in ChinaOf course, life as an American (or European, etc) expat in China is different from the lives of native Chinese people in many ways.The life of a foreigner in China may feel more “free” due to the fact that expats don’t have family responsibilities here. A Chinese student in the USA may feel freedoms in North America that aren’t possible in China.I am a Mandarin Chinese teacher of both children and adults and many of my students are moving to China from the USA. Many of them mention that they feel more “freedom” in China than they do in the USA, despite their worries that it would be the opposite.The three freedoms that I most often hear about from foreigners in China are:Having the “freedom” to not own a car and to be able to get around on public transport. I have lived and traveled in the USA and I know that, while a car is meant to provide personal “freedoms”, we are often limited by our cars: stuck in traffic, financial burden, and cities in which walking or taking the train is not an option.Shanghai’s subways was began just 20 years ago and it’s already the largest in the world:The “freedom” of walking anywhere at any hour and not fearing for your safety. Aside from some crime such as pickpocketing, violent crime in China is minimal and especially not aimed at foreigners.Chinese cities are walkable and worry-free 24/7:The “freedom” of buying alcohol at any hour and to drink it on the street. This is something that Americans enjoy more than Chinese! In the USA there are many rules with alcohol and cigarettes- when/where you can buy and use them. In China, you can have an informal BBQ with beer out on the sidewalk without worry! While most of my students don’t smoke, the few that do seem to greatly enjoy doing it indoors at bars and restaurants.In Qingdao, you can buy “street beer” to go by weight in a plastic bag:For Chinese people, many of us want cars, don’t appreciate how safe the streets are, and would never think of drinking beer in public if not at a restaurant. However, these three points are quite refreshing if you’re coming from North America!Many of my foreign students feel that when they go back home, there are more small laws and responsibilities that don’t apply to their lives when they were here in China.Ironic, isn’t it?
I've lived for substantial time in 3 Asian cities (Singapore, Hong Kong, and Shenzhen), and they all surprised me on the upside. In the case of China, here's why I like it:it's modern, and continues to develop all the time. They have modern cities, excellent transport infrastructure (highways, airports, high-speed trains network which is unmatched in the world, excellent public transport and taxis), excellent hotels, malls, restaurants and cafes, beautiful parks, etc.There’s a feeling of safety and freedom in Chinese cities, which impress with their size. There’s no one to tell you what to do, and you can see from the behavior of the diverse crowd, people just do what they want. In most places you won't see any police. In some others they are present in security posts. They just do their job, i.e. sit there silently and behave reasonably, adding to the security and order. Do you know that police in China doesn't have firearms? They are just like a part of the crowd, only doing their job.friendliness of Chinese people. You will always get help, no matter that you can't speak a word in Chinese besides 你好, or they can't speak English. They'll spend their time and go out of their way to explain you how to get somewhere, or how to buy a train ticket, they'll patiently and enthusiastically explain how to get what you need. They'll be positive and practical all the time while helping you.they are non-dogmatic. The people are simply pragmatic and hardworking, they want to live good lives, and feel responsible for their well-being. They are not brainwashed (something which is actually more typical to Western countries, and you can see it on Quora too). The main philosophy of China is just common sense and being a good person.business is in the genes of Chinese. Small shops and restaurants are ubiquitous, which makes me think self employment and small business must be a major kind of employment. The government creates excellent business infrastructure. For example, the hi tech city area in Shenzhen is very impressive and has lots of spaces to support innovations and startups. China hosts some of world’s biggest trade shows and exhibitions. It’s easy to see trends in the world economy here.they are connected and communal. It’s easy to talk with people and make friends, especially if you are open and respectful.technologically, China is of course advanced in many ways. For example, electric transport has been very developed here for years. You can find electric bikes, personal transportation vehicles (like kick scooters or mono wheels), electric taxis and cars, even electric buses (the photo below is a bus charging station).some things are convenient. The Chinese messenger app (WeChat) is very advanced and makes it easy to make payments and much more; it’s a technology marvel. For example, in some cafes you can scan QR code on your table, which brings up the menu on your phone; you can make an order and it will be sent to your table. You can pay with your mobile phone almost everywhere, you don’t need cash or credit card. It’s fine to leave your wallet at home if you have a phone with you.still kept (and in some cases even exaggerated) some of its sweet traditions. Well, their language itself is ancient to begin with. In the very developed Chinese cities you'll see many people still trying to live simple ways. Outdoor tai chi, dragon boat festivals, traditional medicine, etc., add charm to the urban culture.it’s vast and intellectually stimulating. It’s very geographically diverse, has rich history, and Chinese are passionate about learning and self development, they’re smart and focused. I love book shops here and book cafes; Shenzhen’s central book store claims to be the largest in the world.To give a more balanced answer, I'll mention a few negatives. They are not big, but are a part of life, too:air pollution in some cities and regions. People are used to it. Most of the time it’s not terribly bad, and unfortunately air is more or less polluted in most (if not all) cities of the world. I take break from cities and travel once in a while to other countries or areas in China (such as Yunnan, Hainan) where the air is clean.internet problems. Although the networks are fast, but due to traffic monitoring some sites are blocked (Google, popular social networks, and some news sites) or work slowly. This Internet control has not only political purpose, but it's good for the development of Chinese Internet companies.you shouldn't be lazy and start learning the language and culture. It is very worthy. Although you always get help and generally friendly attitude, you need to do your part and learn at least the basics of Mandarin. Unlike in HK, in the mainland little effort is made to translate anything into English (beyond road signs and metro announcements). It pays a lot to know at least common phrases and basics of characters writing (汉字). It is a lot of fun actually.Overall, China is fast pace, generally efficient, straightforward, but you need to get used to it and learn ways of doing things. They may be not what you are used to coming from another country.
Because, as Westerners, China is the macaroni to our cheese. The yin to our yang if you will.In the West, we tend to emphasize freedom, individualism, the state being the collective wills of the several individuals under it and nothing more. Big collective pushes for ‘the Greater Good’ take the back seat unless it’s really necessary.In China, they tend to emphasize stability, collectivism, the state being a parental body that knows what is good for you even if your short-sightedness tells you otherwise. Individual rights take the back seat unless the lack thereof start to threaten stability.While we keep fighting about which extreme of the continuum is better, in reality they are two halves of a whole.Westerners travel to China and marvel at the speed and practicality with which Chinese can build massive, ultra-modern cities (regardless whether a centuries-old temple was demolished to build it or not)Chinese travel to Europe and marvel at the protected buildings of historical/heritage value preserved perfectly (tough luck if you want to build a highway that will boost economic growth, try building around Ye Olde Tavern).Westerners travel to China and marvel at the safety and efficiency among the Chinese people as the economy powers forth and people’s standard of living increases without any major glitches.Chinese travel to the West and marvel at the creativity and innovation in Western society as with its decentralized, individualistic space for people to do things differentlyI love Western culture with its Socratic approach to problems and Enlightenment values deeply as much as I love Chinese culture with its Confucian values and strong history of science, progress and love of knowledge.The reason why I think China is great is because it clearly demonstrates the strengths of an alternative to Western statecraft - just as much as the West clearly demonstrates the strengths of an alternative to Chinese statecraft. This is how we and China can both reexamine our own established political ‘operating systems’ and improve them where we can.
I'll provide empirical evidence as to why it is important by firstly answering with another question.Why do Jews and the West care still about the Holocaust?More people died during the Nanking massacre than did during the two A-bombs in Japan, yet the A-bombs are much more covered in Japanese history, repeatedly, than the Nanking massacre by far (or all other Japanese war atrocities for that matter).The reason being? China and Japan are in disagreement of the severity of the atrocities as well as the number of dead (mostly since few records remain from the Japanese side largely due to the Japanese burning all evidence during the end of the war). Yet westerners that were there are the biggest sources of the atrocities.*I’ll update with more information time to time*** I did a bit more digging into how the Japanese administration goes on sidelining the issue and learned the method is both simple and well thought out. They simply shift the blame when one party to the issue is asked about it and what we get in return is a triangle of denial. When the government is asked, they blame the teachers; when the teachers are asked, they blame the Education Ministry; when the Education Ministry is asked, they blame the central government. This way, people don't really know what's really going on and who's lying or not because they'll believe whomever they trust most.***EDIT*(Japanese ‘loss’ of information on the matter has much to do with the US investigation of Japan's biological warfare department and subsequent cover up of the matter due to the American interest in the data and the higher ups wanting to keep the data away from the Soviets. Initially, the US Bio warfare corps sent legal experts to investigate war crimes but was stopped by scientists of the same division, though many who initially investigated were misled by Japanese translators who were actually former members of Unit 731, and it was in later inquiries that the Joint Chiefs of staff, notably General MacArthur, decided that the info provided by the Japanese scientists were valuable for the US and decided in a conference with other US department heads to withhold the information in top secret intelligence channels and not submit them to War Crimes programs.Source: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc...The reason why this info is relavent to the matter is simply that during investigations for Unit 731’s crimes, the Allies had no whitnesses who could testify, since documents were kept hidden or destroyed, compared to the Nuremberg trials where there were many witnesses who could testify. This is due to the fact that the Japanese military scientists left no survivors who could testify in part for Chinese lives lost. The only few relavent prosecutions that were carried out were only based on American POW accounts that Americans were tested on. Aside from that, it seems the lives of non-Americans didn't matter as much to the administration. In the case of Nanjing, if the Americans authorities pushed further on the matter then proper justice would have prevailed but they didn't, unlike in Europe. This is also a great source on the matter:https://www.archives.gov/files/i...There was ample evidence to prosecute but most came out to the public after the trials ended.*Unlike in Europe where one central repository of information and prosecutions took place, War crimes trials against the Japanese were conducted by America, the USSR, Republic of China, People’s Republic of China (after 1949), the Filipinos, the British, the Dutch, the French, and even the Portuguese (they had Chinese possessions, mainly Macau, and other colonies in the region) and Australians (Mostly having to do with those capture by the Australian and New Zealand armies) independently of each other. Thus, the American government saw no need to have a single repository of Japanese war crimes due to soviet involvement and didn't pursue them aggressively since they saw Japan as a gift of sorts to use as a buffer against Communism in the Far East. Though, it was America that had captured the wartime administration who were the most heinous criminals, yet they were let go due to ‘lack’ of evidence and the need for a strong Japan. Both the ROC and PRC tried Japanese War criminals in the hundreds. The soviets, however, did capture 6 members of Unit 731 when they entered Manchuria and put them on trial and later handed over hundreds of other Japanese war criminals to the PRC in 1949 for prosecution, but America brushed them off as being “propoganda” most of the time, even if they were legitimate prosecutions.“Although many notorious war criminals went unpunished and lived prosperous and prestigious lives, it is important to recognize that thousands of Japanese war crimes were prosecuted. Twenty-eight Class A war criminals accused of crimes against peace, conventional war crimes, and crimes against humanity included many of Japan’s wartime leaders, such as Prime Minister Gen. Tōjō Hideki. The Tokyo War Crimes Tribunal, the counterpart of Nuremberg, began in May 1946 and ended in November 1948 with the conviction of twenty-five of these defendants. Seven, including Tōjō, were hanged, sixteen were sentenced to life imprisonment (of whom four died in prison), and two received lesser terms. Of the three remaining, two died during the proceedings, and one was declared unfit for trial. The Japanese government paroled all those imprisoned by 1956 and the Foreign Ministry released them unconditionally in April 1958. Allied nations also held war crimes trials throughout Asia and the Pacific. Americans, British, Australians, Dutch, French, Filipinos, and Chinese held trials at forty-nine locations between October 1945 and April 1956. The British prosecuted numerous Japanese for war crimes in Southeast Asia, including those involved in the construction of the Thai- Burma railway of death, immortalized as the Bridge over the River Kwai. Australian prosecutors worked in conjunction with British and American courts to bring Japanese to justice and tried large numbers of Japanese at Amboina, Dutch East Indies, and at Rabaul, New Britain. China tried at least 800 defendants, including some involved in the Nanjing massacre. France and the Netherlands tried several hundred more. The French brought to justice a Japanese civilian on Java who forced dozens of women into prostitution for the military authorities, and the Dutch condemned Japanese to death for the murder of indigenous people and Dutch prisoners. In late 1949 at Khabarovsk, the Soviet Union also put twelve Japanese on trial for biological warfare crimes—six were members of Unit 731, two of Unit 100, an independent biological warfare entity, and four from elsewhere—and later transferred several hundred Japanese ex-servicemen suspected of war crimes to the People’s Republic of China, where Chinese authorities judged them in the mid-1950s. Of 5,379 Japanese, 173 Taiwanese, and 148 Koreans tried as class B and C war criminals for conventional crimes, violations of the laws of war, rape, murder, maltreatment of prisoners of war, about 4,300 were convicted, almost 1,000 sentenced to death, and hundreds given life imprisonment.”“The total number of Chinese deaths in Nanjing remains a subject of dispute. While the Chinese government and historians insist that some 300,000 Chinese were massacred by the Japanese in and around Nanjing—a figure from the postwar trials in Nanjing— Japanese historians have offered different estimates ranging from thousands to over 100,000. Significantly, newly discovered Japanese documents, which include the diaries of several key commanders as well as official war journals from one-third of all the Japanese regiments involved in that battle, indicate that at least tens of thousands of disarmed Chinese soldiers were executed by Japanese troops at the order of their commanders. As a result, in the mid-1980s, a representative of the veteran group Kaikōsha offered an apology to the Chinese people on its behalf.In addition to the Rape of Nanking, the “ three All” Campaign—for “Kill all, burn all, loot all,” the Chinese description of the Japanese Army’s tactics in attacking Communist guerrilla forces in north China—has long been central in Communist China’s history of the war against Japan. Many earlier studies relied solely on the testimonies of Chinese victims and survivors. Only recently have historians in Japan begun to systematically study anti-guerrilla operations in north China, including such practices as creating a “no- man’s land” by corroborating Japanese sources with Chinese evidence. The Japanese use of biological and chemical weapons (to be discussed later) and the bombing of China’s wartime capital Chongqing have become an issue for Chinese historians and activists.”(https://www.archives.gov/files/i...)This one paragraph captures why it's important to pressure the Japanese government to be held fully accountable for war crimes:“When confronted by advocacy and human rights groups, the Japanese government insisted these issues had been settled by stipulations of the peace treaty signed in San Francisco in September 1951. Nothing more needed to be said on the matter. Not only did Japanese authorities refuse to acknowledge any wartime responsibility, but several conservative politicians and senior bureaucrats went so far as to publicly denounce the accusations as groundless historical revisionism and Japan bashing. There was, of course, a domestic political dimension to the accusations (no candidate from the conservative ruling party, the LDP, could win an election by blaming Japan for a war of aggression), but the hard- line offcial Japanese position created the impression in the United States that Japanese war crimes and related subjects such as war guilt or the role of Emperor Hirohito in the war were taboo subjects in Japan.”)Witness to War: 'War orphan' recounts feeling of abandonment (This article is about a Japanese citizen who was relocated to Manchukuo close to the end of the war and her story of how the Japanese government abandoned them in China with no way home and even those who did make it back to Japan received very little help from the Japanese government to compensate for the brainwashing and horrors of war they experienced. And these are Japanese being treated bad by their own government, so it's no surprise that the Japanese government and military would treat Chinese and other Asians as being beneath them.)Japanese War Orphans and the Challenges of Repatriation in Post-Colonial East Asia (This one talks about the story of Japanese “orphans” who were left behind by the Japanese government in Manchuria and their story and hardships. It's important to understand that horrible things happened in the war and the Japanese government didn't care for Japanese lives outside Japan proper either)The other factor is that Japan has issued statements on “Great remorse” and ‘apologies’ which people feel aren't sincere enough, which is also due to the fact that on several occasions the Japanese Ministry of Education has tried to sugarcoat history books and tell publishers to not depict “dark history” of Japan or to change entire sentences, such as the Japanese aggression in China to the Japanese advance into China.Source:Examining the Japanese History Textbook ControversiesIn fact, many people are unaware that the 89′ Tiananmen Square student protest was actually the second of such protests.The one prior to it in 85′ was also a student protest to then Japanese Prime Minister Yasuhiro’s visit to the Yasukuni Shrine (Japanese War Memorial) as well as a textbook controversy back then too.This is interesting read:https://digitalarchive.wm.edu/bi...Nanjing Massacre - Facts & Summary - HISTORY.comThe Nanjing Massacre: Scenes from a Hideous Slaughter 75 Years Ago | TIME.com (Not for the squirmish)THE RAPE OF NANKING (1937) OR NANJING MASSACRE(This article by an Australian source talks about how the Nanjing Massacre is the most well documented atrocity due to the presence of Westerners who documented the slaughters)And for those with access to google and YouTube, a simple search for “ nanking massacre” or “Nanjing massacre” or even “Rape of Nanking” will provide you with more than enough videos recorded by westerners who were in Nanjing, including the most notable one by US missionary in Nanjing, John Magee.Edit: I find it relevant to add a little information about the war in the Pacific front from the perspective of China with historical information, since the most over spoken accounts are almost all American when it comes to the Pacific theater in the Western historical minds.Here are some historical info on the Chinese part of the war that is being ‘rediscovered’ by the West:The 'Chinese Schindler' who saved thousands of JewsForgotten ally? China's unsung role in World War IIMassacres and Atrocities of WWII in the Pacific Region(This talks about the various crimes of the Japanese during the onset of the war in 1931 when Japan invaded Manchuria)Imperial Japan - history-of-ww2(This link is importnant in that it shows how Japan's expansion and war was more prominently controlled by its military under Tojo than the Emperor or the central government, both of which were fairly weak during the time due an internal war between Japanese liberals and ultra-conservatives - the ultra-conservatists (ultra-nationalists) won. Japan was ruled by the military, meaning the massacres were systematic because they were ordered by the military)Here is a quote from the article that talks about how the military came to power:“Between 1928 and 1932, Japan faced domestic crisis. Economic collapse associated with the Great Depression provoked spiralling prices, unemployment, falling exports and social unrest. In November 1930, the Prime Minister Hamaguchi Osachi was shot by an ultra-nationalist. In summer 1931, as control slipped away from the civilian government, the army acted independently to invade Manchuria. Troops quickly conquered the entire border region, establishing the puppet state of Manchukuo. Though the League of Nations condemned the action, it was powerless to intervene, and Japan promptly withdrew its membership. International isolation fed ultra-nationalism. Mayors, teachers and Shinto priests were recruited by ultra-nationalist movements to indoctrinate citizens.In May 1932, an attempt by army officers to assassinate Hamaguchi’s successor stopped short of becoming a full-blown coup, but ended rule by political parties. Between 1932 and 1936, admirals ruled Japan. Within government, the idea of the ‘Greater East Asian Co-Prosperity Sphere’ emerged. This plan called for Asian unification against western imperialism under Japanese leadership, leading to Asian self-sufficiency and prosperity. In reality, it meant an agenda of Japanese imperial domination in the Far East.”** I wanted to add a bit more, since the quote talks about the puppet state of Manchukuo. This is where the infamous Unit 731 (the Imperial Army’s Biological warfare unit) was based.They did many heinous experiments on Chinese (all of whom they regarded as “logs”) which was later covered up by the American government when the war ended and the US needed a strong Japan to counter Communist China.(And yes, many of the people who did these heinous experiments are prominent doctors in their fields now)Here are some sources on it:A New Look at Japan’s Wartime Atrocities and a U.S. Cover-UpUnmasking Horror -- A special report.; Japan Confronting Gruesome War Atrocity (from 1995)Human bones could reveal truth of Japan's 'Unit 731' experimentsQ. and A.: Gao Yubao on Documenting Unit 731’s Brutal Human Experiments70 years on, Unit 731's wartime atrocities fester in China's memory | The Japan TimesThis matter also concerns American POW’s who were also experimented on and appalled by the fact that their own government covered up the crimes and let Japan off the hook.Japan revisits its darkest moments where American POWs became human experimentsNew Kyushu museum breaks taboo with POW vivisection display | The Japan TimesJapanese veteran admits vivisection tests on PoWsTruth Emerging on Ailing POWs, Japan Germ Unit**EDIT: PART 2**So I currently live with two Japanese exchange students from Osaka and Oita areas and when I asked them about such things their reply was “wtf?! Is this for real??? We never learned about this! How can the government just cover this up?”They genuinely didn't know about the wrong doings of the military during the war or that their government was hiding it behind smoke and mirrors. They also said that it was a total shock for them when they first learned about it in history classes here and that they didn't cover such things in detail at all in their history classes in Japan. They also said their teachers just said that something bad happened in Nanjing and made no mentions of other things.
Germany Chancellor Willy Brandt’s famous Warschauer Kniefall to apologise for Holocaust.Former Japanese Prime Minister Junichirō Koizumi’s dressed up to visit Yasukuni Shrine to mourn convicted war criminals.The current Japanese Prime Minister Shinzō Abe.We can forgive but we will never forget. But Japanese government won’t let us.It’s 300,000 lives, you are asking why we still care. We are human beings, not monsters.
Chinese has been hearing voices from Japan arguing that "Nanking Massacre" is a hoax, a fabrication, a war-time propaganda! And the activities of Japanese military in Nanking were in accordance with international law and were humane! Some even published a book arguing that the Tokyo Tribunal was “victor's justice” only 2,000 deaths for the entirety of the massacre!SHAMELESS!!But IT’S ALRIGHT NOW, Chinese WILL NOT care about the Nanjing massacre anymore~Back in 2015, the United Nation Education, Science and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) has officially added China's Nanjing Massacre Documents in its Memory of the World Register.WOOO~HOO~ Case Closed
This question is not directed at me by virtue of me not being Chinese (I am Vietnamese). Also, none of my family relatives experienced neither oppression nor brutality the Japanese demonstrated so conspicuously in WW2.But I DO CARE about the Nanking massacre. It was in my first quarter of college in America. I had attained a sufficient level of English proficiency to start reading books written in English. I stumbled upon this book in a Barnes and Nobles store:The Rape of Nanking: The Forgotten Holocaust of World War II: Iris Chang: 8601300280783: Amazon.com: BooksThe content of book, in particular the graphic depiction of the murder, rape committed by the Japanese during 6 weeks of butchery at Nanking, engendered in me the deepest shock and anger. What provoked in me so much hatred was not only the number of victims murdered but also the manner in which the Japanese murdered them.Here are some examples of the acts of extreme barbarism perpetrated by the Japanese during the massacre:1/ Gang raped and impaling the vaginas of Chinese women and girls with sharp objects such as bamboo sticks, golf clubs, beer bottles, or sometimes even firecrackers.2/ Age did not shield female civilians from rapes. The Japanese could rightfully be regarded as the worst child rapists in the entirety of ww2 when they violated girls as young as 8–10 years old. They even violated the elderly above 80 years of age, nuns, university professors. Especially gruesome was the treatment inflicted on young girls. Because of their not-yet-mature bodies, the Japanese used knives to slice open their genitals to facilitate the rapes. According to eye witnesses, “the blood-stained, swollen and ruptured area between the girls’ legs created a disgusting scene difficult for anyone to look at directly”.3/ Live burial of thousands of people.4/ Burying people to waist-level in the ground and let German shepherds tear them apart.5/ Nailed women to the walls and brutalized or violated them6/ Suspended people by the tongues on the meat hooks and bayoneted them to death7/ Degraded entire families by forcing fathers to rape their daughters, brothers to rape their sisters, sons to rape their mothers. Anyone who defied would immediately be murdered.8/ Engaged in recreational beheading contest to break the monotony of murder (Contest to kill 100 people using a sword - Wikipedia)9/ Sliced open the abdomen of pregnant women and ripped out the unborn fetuses for amusement.And numerous more horrendous acts of sadism and brutality can be found throughout the book.After reading the book, my attitude toward the Japanese turned 180 degree. Whatever good will, respect and compassion I used to have for them died after reading the Rape of Nanking book and numerous other accounts of Japanese war crimes.What intensifies my anger and hatred toward them is the fact that they live in denial until this day. They painstakingly distort history by misrepresenting the Nanking massacre as merely Nanking incident, and insist that only a few thousands or at most tens of thousands had died compared to the Red Cross’s statistics which indicated that 250000 and 300000 Chinese civilians and POWs had been murdered. In addition, they painstakingly censor details of all of their shameful atrocities, including the Nanking massacre, from history textbook so that the young generation of the Japanese will remain unaware of the atrocities. As the final insult, the Japanese continue to honor the war criminals enshrined at Yasukuni. That is no different from honoring Adolf Hitler and his henchmen in the middle of Berlin.Just like the Jews never want to forget the Holocaust, the Koreans never want to forget the humiliation under Japanese rule and the Comfort women, the Chinese can be pardoned for caring so much about an atrocity characterized by extreme brutality, sadism, and cruelty.My deepest condolence to the Chinese men, women whose lives were cruelly extinguished by the Japanese.
Because if you are human human, you will never forget the shock and the hit to your heart (if you have a righteous heart) when you first learned about those brutal deeds, especially when it happened to your people, your kind.What haunts you is more than such crimes as manslaughter, rape, but rather the lost of humanity to beast insanity under the cover of war, if you ever learned what had happened, not just a big volume of people were killed. It is not about the killing, it is more about how they were killed, raped, hurt, or tortured, and those victims were civilians, unarmed, without self-defense skills. Animals hunt for food, because they need to survive, it’s a birthright. But a group of soldiers who were ordinary persons like you and me, killed for joy or for no reason with extremely brutal means (beyond description of any language), or could not show minimum sympathy as a human.In Chinese history, Chinese people had witnessed stories about human eating human fleshes during war, or starvation, whether ethnic invasions in Han people’s land, or Chinese conquering other territories, but nothing had been so humanless as what they did , except for some individual lunatics or some brutal punishments implemented by the rulers that had existed for a reason, to punish crimes and enhance their rulings. But what they did, was a shere doing of anti-humanism.The above explains why we remember, and can also explain why Japanese keep denying those evildoings. Because they haven’t found a way to explain to their younger generations why their kind could have done that. It’s a normal but unacceptable response that when you can’t explain, you lie or deny, in this case, to their younger generations.Just like, if someone’s father is a very bad guy, in the jail, the mother might lie to her child that “your father died in an accident” or “your father left us without reason”, but wouldn’t talk too much about it. Lack of real courage to tell the truth. A self-deception, an absolute lie. And in this case, it’s not affecting only one family or one country, it has an effect internationally and even on the whole humanity.Just answer this question, there were multiple foreign powers combating in China during that time, why only Japanese were remembered as the evildoers by Chinese? Did China have one single reason to frame them?And, when you couldn’t explain what happened, or you couldn’t accept it, at least warn or alarm your young generation that such deeds, if they did happen, they were evil, you should never do it, because you deserve humanity.
Yes, Guizhou is one of the poorest provinces in China . We usually use these words to describe Guizhou, 天无三日晴，地无三尺平，人无三文银，means ‘ No three days are sunny, No three foots land is flat, No three yuan people have’.Guizhou province is mountainous area, and lacks infratructure, in the past decade China goverment have done lots of job to improve it.List of Highest International Bridges/Page 1 ，quite a number of bridges are built in Guizhou province.This is per capita GDP ranking of Chinese provinces.Guizhou is the third from bottom.If you want to know about China, keep far away from chanels like ‘China Uncensored’ in Youtube, it’s trash.
Guess this video is talking about 兴义 (Xingyi). If you search it in Baidu, Chinese searching engine, you will know that it’s GDP in 2015 was 3.18 billion yuan (almost $467.6 million). Considering 848 thousands people in there, Xingyi’s per capita GDP was 37.5 thousands yuan, lower than the average of the whole nation (54 thousands yuan) but higher than the average of Guizhou Province (29.8 thousands yuan). So I think maybe Xingyi is a more modern city in Guizhou Province.However, China is now trying their best to eliminate poverty, and poor provinces are developing quickly. I believe more and more cities in Guizhou Province will be like this. Welcome to China and visit it. :)
Guizhou, like yunnan next door, are beautiful mountainous provinces with tons of ethnic diversity and relatively undeveloped. If you visit china, go to these places and you won't be disappointed. It is because they are relatively more undeveloped that makes them nice places. Farmers live more traditional lifestyles, sure it is a hard life for them and they would welcome more development, but overall they aren't unhappy. For tourists, this is a chance to see a more ideal china that haven't been yet completely transformed by development.
Sorry,the video you linked i can't watch because of Internet limit.In my view,every place has both lights and shadows.On one hand, it's poor,on the other hand,the scenery there can be very attractive.Some cities seem prosperous,there are also beggars.As a developing country,China inevitablely has some cities in extreme poverty,but eliminating poverty is on the agenda of the government,so their getting rid of poverty is on the way.Besides,China’s territory is vast,its attractive sites are also countless.The picture you think unreal may be real.If you have a tour in China,you will have a better perception.
Well, because it’s a province. A province is big. So poor areas riches areas, All you can find. That's not propaganda, who will be that boring to make everyday video to do propagandas!
Desmond CarolanThe question is somewhat strange to me. Most Chinese people do not see the PLA as their oppressors in any way, so they they do not need to "liberate themselves" from it.Certainly from talking to Chinese students both in London and Beijing, I can only agree with the view that Chinese people generally see the People's Liberation Army (PLA) in a positive light.The PLA is both admired and respected for its role in disaster relief and the fact that its soldiers are prepared to risk their lives in saving people. Several Chinese students also told me that the PLA provides a means for (mainly) young men from the poorest parts of China to escape poverty.The PLA provides them with good meals, good accommodation and clothing which they may not have had access to before joining. It moreover gives them training and skills that they can use when they leave the PLA,. Consequently, the PLA is a means of  social mobility and advancement for many people in China.In short, the Chinese People's Liberation Army is respected by the vast majority of the Chinese people for the work it does relieving the effects of natural disasters and the courage of its soldiers doing so. It also offers many young men from poor backgrounds opportunities that they otherwise would not have.
Because the PLA belongs to people.May be other country’s army established only for national territory defense or military deterrence.But in China, Chinese people know what their army do for them.When the earthquake happenThis is the PLA！When the flood come,This is the PLA！When they leavePeople thank them！What reason we have to attack them?They are our relatives.They has done too much for us……
Because we are so poor we have no money to buy weapons, if you could provide us with following weapons we will attack the PLA with all might:Joint Strike Fighter*300 F22*200,Virginia class submarine*50,Hypersonic electromagnetic rail gun*30,F2000 assault rifle*2,000,000,DG51 Arleigh Burke class guided missile destroyer*50,XM307 automatic grenade launcher*2000,The V-22 Osprey transport aircraft*500,UGM-133 Trident-II*200,000，Ford class aircraft carrier*20 .With all these and other neccessary machines and a military supply of 600 billion dollars every year, we Chinese can build a huge army to attack PLA.BTW, please lend the military bases and airports in the west Pacific and regions around China freely so we can place our men and machines.Please hand over the control of the GPS to the Chinese people so we are not blind.Let’s go and destory the evil communists!
Question question, are you from China yourself? If you are not then it would be hypocritical to assume that outsiders can think of things better for people that are in china itself. What I've learned so far is most people like to assume that democracy and “free market” is for everybody in the world. People from the outside easily judge people in other countries as unhappy with their lot. They may not allow their citizens to go out and make a fool of themselves and post it online but this does not define contentment and happiness for every person outside your social strata.Why should they attack those who are meant to help and protect them?
In response to all the sinophile answers, the name “People’s Liberation Army”, does have a rather oppressive/ominous jingle to it for westerners. More often than not, it gets confused with the Palestine Liberation Organization, which conjures up images of mideast terrorism (it certainly did for me, when i first heard the acronym, while growing up in the west). Just by changing this english name to something more mild (and nothing else), China could tremendously reduce its perceived military tensions with the west.Media is all about getting viewers attention with troll-baiting titles (Quora included), and China’s military literally hands itself on a silver platter to western-media with such an inflammatory-sounding english name. Here are some example news title i just dug up on google. Imagine how less ominous they would sound, if china’s military got rid of the PLA english moniker:Why don't chinese people attack the PLA with all their might and liberate themselves? (Yeah, down with the oppressive PLA! they’re related to the PLO right?)…Why don't chinese people attack China’s Army with all their might and liberate themselves? (Wtf has china’s army ever done to its own people recently? What an obviously stupid Quora question)People's Liberation Army ups its recruitment gameChina’s Army ups its recruitment gameXi Jinping Takes Command Of The People's Liberation ArmyXi Jinping Takes Command Of China’s ArmyPeople's Liberation Army to become most modern military by 2020China's Army to become most modern military by 2020
Your neighbour’s father once came to your house when you were still a baby. He asked your father to give up the house because he is much better at managing it. Your father refused. So he killed your father, raped your mother and killed her, took your brother to some terrible experiments and killed him, raped your elder sister to death and killed your little sister who was only 2 months old at the time.Your neighbor’s mother, at the same time, was so proud of what her husband had done. She made nice meal for him and wished him can kill some more in your home. And then, someone stronger came, killed your neighbour’s mother and made the man stop. However the man gave all that he took from your house, like the data of experiments on your brother, to that someone for exchange. So, that someone let him go, freely. But, well, that's another story. Let's come back to you and your neighbor.To be fair, both you and your current neighbor were too young to remember anything back that time. Now you grow up and his dad is dead already. Well, the past is the past, let it go, you thought.But the other day, you passing your neighbor’s house and find, oh, he is having a celebrating party. A party, cool, you thought.“What is the party for?” you ask.“For my feather and his great killing skill and the glory fight that he won from your father!” he said, looking in your eyes with a lovely smile, “the past is past, you won't mind right?”“Yes!He is so cuuute! His mother was also killed! He is a victim! You must forgive him, you bad Chinese!” shout someone who watched this.
Chinese have every right to be hateful to Japan, because of what they did.That being said, the past is the past, and most Japanese people are not like that now, but when you hurt a people as much as they did back then, it's difficult to move on. For many Chinese, it's impossible to move on.That being said, it doesn't help that 40% of Chinese television is war against Japan shows and movies. That and parents and teachers religiously teach their children that Japan is bad, and we must hate them.I have had many students, 6 and 7 years old, who tell me “I hate Japan! I want them to burn!” And I just frown and say “Why?” They say “Because they are bad, that's why!”There's nothing we can do about it when it's a part of their culture to hate Japan.Answer: Why? Because it's a popular idea that sells, and remembering what they did to China back then puts a fire in many Chinese hearts, one that us foreigners just cannot begin to comprehend.In a way similar to any blockbuster film about Iraq and 9/11.
Not that hateful as you thought. Haha.In the Chinese quora, zhihu, there is a serial of questions “How developed/good is XXX(a certain country)”. The number of views and followers may show the attitude of zhihu users.Question: How Good is Japan? follower 34340 view 8899366Question: How Developed is Japan? follower 82160 view 8389399And for the US:Question: How Developed is the US? follower 32886 view 1256134for northern EuropeQuestion: How Developed is northern Europe? follower 10569 view 438076for the UK, France and GermanySo….among all the main developed country in this world, we like Japan the most…
well for starters, all of the japanese pms refuse to acknowledge the war crimes committed - apologies were half hearted and me, a westernized chinese person will still boycott japanese products simply because in 1940, my grandfather and 4 other relatives of mine were brutally executed while fighting the japs - no pow camps - just a bayonet through your chest - my great-grandmother had to throw my grandmother into the bushes so the japanese wouldn’t find my grandmother and kill her or perform sick and twisted experiments on her - they did this to basically the entire country of china - every single chinese person in china has an extremely personal connection like melets not forget to mention that shinzo abe still goes to shrines honouring war criminals
I am tired of these questions polluting my FEED. Just one last time.There's a special shrine in Japan, 護国神社/shrine honouring the war dead, which has branches (shrines are like banks) in almost all the Japanese cities.What does the war dead mean?Including all the killers who had invaded my motherland in the history, from the first Sino-Japan war, Russo-Japan war (occured in China), the illegal occupation of NorthEast China, to the WW2.Including those who attacked Pearl Harbour, and who slaughtered and enslaved countless East/SouthEast Asian people.These war criminals have been and will be honoured officially in Japanese shrines.Current Japan has no part in the military past? What are you talking about: Abe Shinzo’s grandpa is a A class war criminal.Given the killer shows no regret, are you asking me why we are not polite?
The reason why I decided to live in Shanghai for such a long time is very simple: I'm happier here despite China holds some shortcomings we all know (pollution, house price, food safety, etc…).So, why am I happier here?Mainly because:I became so familiar with the city to the point I feel it's now “my place”, like a kind of second hometownI have good friends I do care aboutI have learned things that made me a better personAnd I do care a lot about personal safety. It feels great to be in a huge city where you can be free to walk around at any time of the day and without threatsEven in the past I got opportunities to go back to Europe with higher salary and better package, but I declined it. Perhaps I'm a sentimental guy, but I do mind to stay where I feel happy. Money is important but isn't everything; what matters the most is that you are in harmony with yourself, whether it's in China or any other place in the world, you should follow what you really want and what makes you feel better.On the other hand, there are many Chinese people who go abroad for study but eventually they'll move back to China at one point. At least that's what I noticed in my ten years experience here.Pursue your happiness and you'll be fine.
As someone else has commented here, many foreigners who enjoy living in China have an underlying reason/purpose for being here.Some believe it is the land of opportunity in the 21st century. They expect to come here and are willing to spend half to all of their lives trying to become successful.Some are here for experience. They think by gaining international experience in a country that is becoming more and more important for corporations, they will have an advantage over others when moving back.Some are fascinated with Chinese culture or asian anime, so they move to an Asian country.Some are here for the language. Mastering Chinese is their life long pursuit.Some are fascinated by Chinese women or men. They come here looking for a husband or wife.Some are here to get closer to their roots. They were raised by Chinese parents but lack a true connection and the experience of living in China.Talking to all of these types of foreigners in China who are positive about living here. Most of their reasoning is financial. They believe that in China, you can have a decent life and save money as well. Their above purpose is what makes them believe this is a great place to be long-term.Most Chinese people migrate for 3 main reasons. Education, Pollution, and Less Competition/More Oppurtunity. All of these reasons are because of their children to get a better life in the future - especially the first 2.
Every country has unique opportunities and unique competitive forces. Competition in China for jobs, educational opportunities, etc. is very high. They have a huge widely dispersed population and it can be difficult to differentiate yourself and get access to those opportunities. They generally emigrate to get access to unique opportunities that are a better fit for their situation or to become part of a culture that rewards particular traits, behaviors, skills, education, etc.There’s a lot of focus in China on better integrating and doing business with western companies, so there are lots of opportunities for people who can bridge those cultural gaps. In some companies, just being a Western ex-patriot can make you somewhat of a rock-star. However, if you’re a highly motivated, individualistic person from rural China without a formal education, you may find that Western culture will reward that drive and passion more than Chinese culture will.What it comes down to is that there’s no “one best country” to live or work in. It’s all very situational and has a lot to do with your personality, skills, experience, education, background, etc. People who have traits or abilities that are surplus or even detrimental in their country can often relocate to where those traits or abilities are in demand. But, there’s so much variety and diversity in people and cultures that you’ll often see traffic moving in both directions.
I’m not sure I have anything Terribly Insightful to add to the thread, but I’d like to share a brief synopsis of my time in China. I moved here at the beginning of 2015 to take a job I was very excited about. (The details aren’t important.) Here are three reasons I love living in China: 1. This may well be the warmest, most welcoming country I have ever been to outside the US. 2. Despite what one may see or hear, the urban areas are clean and modern. I mean, nothing’s perfect, but I’d rather live in Tianjin (where I am) than in most metropolitan areas in the US. (Bear in mind that my Chinese sucks, and I still feel this way.) 3. The incredible blend of complexity, diversity and thousands of years of history is absolutely fascinating. As someone else pointed out, it’s no more appropriate to think of China as a single country than it is to think about Europe or Central America as being single countries. (Central America might be the better analogy, because of the nominal homogeneity of language.)Sure, there are things that are very different, and the monolithic government and bureaucracy can be challenging - but I knew those risks when I moved here, and don’t have any bad feelings. In fact, in general, if you don’t do anything to cause public embarrassment, or embarrassment to the government, it’s actually a very liberal society.Just my opinion, but I’m happy here, and grateful to have welcomed into the country.
There are 1.4 billion people living in China, millions of Chinese people who migrate abroad won’t make a huge difference in statistic. The ratio is almost insignificant to our society, and there’s no notable relevance between the number of migrants and living standard in China. Let’s say the US: an ideal place for people who pursue business startups, job opportunities, education fulfillment and high living standard. But even in the most developed country in our planet, the number of people who abandon American citizenship every year skyrockets these years: some of them migrate abroad, some of them withdraw their business, some of them book an airline ticket back to their motherland without doubts and regrets. All nations have flaws and merits, people migrate for thousands of reasons.Millions of Chinese people migrate because they have different career orientation, lifestyle choice, education options or marriage choice. I was born and raised in China, been traveled to different countries around the world. I appreciate the advancement and superiority of western countries in educational system, environmental protection, healthcare, individual freedom and diversity of career choices, but undoubtedly the rising problems and upcoming dilemmas are jeopardizing the social structure and western values in developed countries.China is not a terrifying place to live in, I don’t want to elaborate since some other answers are quite thorough and comprehensive about it. The charisma and charm of China would be embraced if you experience it by yourself. :)
I have been living in China for a little over 1.5 years and I have understood much of the much secretive and claimed ‘Communist’ Political system that I have to accept, globally, people only have stereotypes about. In these 1.5 years, My most preferred ice-breaker with people I meet for the first time, is their political opinions towards the government. Sometimes, It can backfire but I have known the boundaries of its sensitivity.During my experience here, I have talked with many students, working professionals, CEOs of a few companies to even a few Baristas. One common feeling which remains same in each of these interactions is the sheer positivity towards their government.Wait, What?I have been to 20+ countries in over 5 continents and the political perception of people towards their government intrigues me. I have had such conversations with many, all over the world. But, I haven’t experienced as many people being positive about their government as in China. So, This comes as a shock to many of my friends overseas. Some, even call it brainwashing.I read more about it & I discovered that India & China are leading the Global Trust Levels in Business and Government. You can check it out HERE.In many of my conversations with my friends overseas, It is common for many of them to openly criticize their government and its policies. Most of these conversations just end with, either ‘I am sick and tired of this system’ or ‘the next government will be better’.China’s political system remains a global controversy & It was important for me to understand the reasons behind it. So, I decided to write down some of my experiences.Before, I move on, I have a disclaimer - This is a neutral perspective coming from a Global Citizen, not an individual of 1 specific country. And, I have one request, try more to understand than to be understood. For once. I did the same and have been doing the same for over 1.5 years.Last Month, I saw many of my social media feeds going viral over Donald Trump’s victory. I think the topic of ‘Our Political System :o itself, for us or for some specific people’ has become even more important and urgent topic to talk about. Against the popular perceptions, the chinese political model has taken my interest to new heights. Here are some of its highlights -ForDemocracy or No Democracy - The biggest myth of the chinese the same in many countries. The much acclaimed ‘Largest Democracy in the World’ - India, has the same system where people vote for the member of parliament who in the end choose the prime minister of the country (the equivalent of the Chinese president). The point is - It’s democracy. Yes, It can be questioned. But, on a scale of ‘Yes’ or ‘No’, it’s a ‘Yes’.its political system - ‘It’s not democracy’. Well, it’s wrong. People in China do vote for their local councillors who in the end are supposed to choose the bigger leaders in the political arena. It is true that many people don’t know about this process and how it works as the process is not transparent and some people just don’t care. It’s also true that a layman can’t vote to choose the president of the country. ButEarn a voting right - If you want to play a role in the National Politics The Communist party. It’s important to understand the ‘one party system’. People need to be a party member in order to vote for the Chinese President.party i.e. or vote for the Chinese president. Then, you have to be a Chinese Communist party member. China is a Democracy but has only oneSingle Party System - Yes, ito a single party rule. But, wait, Singapore has a Single party rule too since no other political party or coalition of parties has been successful in winning enough votes to form a government. An extremely efficient democracy based on popular perceptions. So, One party ruling the country is not unique. And, China is not an exception here.Being a party member - The next question is, how to be a party member? In order to be a party member, a person needs to be influential enough to earn a right to vote in the presidential elections. Although, the exact number remains to be a secret but I read it online that the Communist Party of China has over 87.79 Million Members (24.7% Female) till June 2016.Well, that was the Chinese Political system that I have understood till now. But the important part is, What is my opinion about it? So, here are my experiences when I talk with people about it.Democracy or No Democracy - In one of my conversations with Terry, A Bar Tender in Beijing who had won many awards for his work. He learnt Bar tending to decide the result of the elections but in reality they don’t. Look at what they did, They did Brexit and now are suffering. Democracy works in a Board Room, in an office when a company/team is deciding, basically within a group of 10 people or so, deciding something about their work since the team is supposed to work in one direction but not a country". Well, he proved me wrong in the conversation of ‘People having a say in deciding the election results’.different in reality it’s not even 0.1%. Let’s look at a UK, when I was studying there, UK has a population of 60+ million, when they vote, they think their vote will make a matters but them believe in this delusion that their vote vote making from a school in the UK. He says "'Democracy is a delusion’ because people are made to believe (by the media, current government) that they have a say in the bigger political system. But, in reality, they don’t". He gave me some data, he said "You are Indian, right? What’s India’s Population? Really big, right? How many people do you have? 1 billion or so? Tell me, how 1 person in 1 billion people can have a say in the political system which has over a billion people. You don’t. You are just made to believe and asked toEarn a voting right - In a recent conversation with one of my colleagues Charles, he said "We grow up in a world where we are told that education is everything. The higher you study the better your future is or the more successful you are going to be. Now, let’s combine democracy with it. In this case, people who have won a noble prize/ A scientist/ A person with a PHD are supposed to be the most successful people. Can you equate them with a person who never been to a school?" My answer was no. He replies "Exactly but’.democracy what happens in China". Well, he proved me wrong too in the conversation of ‘Only People make the decision in a thats that’s what democracy does. You see, everyone has only 1 Vote in a Democracy. How can we argue that a person who is not even educated will have enough decision making ability to vote for the right person. How can you treat them equal. It’s not possible. That’s why you got to earn a right to vote by proving your ability to vote andSingle Party System - In a recent conversation with Marc, one of my friends who lives in my apartment, we were talking about Brexit. He said, "Brexit is a joke. First they always a long term plan. That’s the reasons China has grown so much in the last 30 years." Well, he proved me wrong on the topic of ‘Having multiple parties in a political system’ too. a) and the new government cancels the plans of the previous government? But, In China, there is democarcy of global concept means that tomorrow it can have more space for more people. The government wants to do that. But, if there was a second political party then they will come here and not let it happen. It stops the economic growth and a country’s overall growth. What if tomorrow the government changes (referring to homeless but it because the opposition parties will lose out on their vote banks if the bill is passed. You just can’t move on in a multi-party system". He was referring to the Gun Rights Bill in the US House. "Look at a China, you see that building (referring to a 45 floor building from the window), tomorrow you may see a higher building there. That higher building doesn’t mean that the people living there are now going to be enough but things will move on, and won’t be stopped. Look at the US, the government works for years and years to make a bill and then the opposition party rejects it. Not because the bill wasn’t good Atleast voted and then they realized, Oops, we did wrong. Now, can we vote again?" He was referring to the survey of more than 50% of people wanting to vote again on Brexit, in the UK. He went on saying "If there is one party then they will do what they think is right. Plus, there is nobody else to oppose it.Being a Party Member - During a casual meet up with some of my friends from the previous company I used to work for, they started talking about one of our colleagues who recently became a Chinese Communist Party Member. I asked "Isn’t it unfair that only limited people have a right to vote?" Well, that turned out to be a trigger to have a 3 hours long conversation. I asked them, how do you exactly become a party member? One of them replies,For some reason, Quora Editor gives me problems to write long answers. You can check the original post here - https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/w...
This is just a stream of thought response based on my experiences this summer. I had a great time, but I like to analyze things and was actively looking for differences.I traveled to Nanjing this summer and stayed for just short of a month. Other than finding the humidity unbearable, I was fascinated by the mix of old world culture and futuristic society. In some ways with the street vendors and the open markets I felt like I was back in the 17th century, but everyone has smart phones.Most of the buildings are new, but not well maintained (except for the nice shiny downtown). Kids played outside like I did backin the 1980s. Everyone where t shirts with English writing on them which they probably don’t understand.The more urban centers feel like something out of minority report or blade runner but with less dystopia and much more materialism. Capitalism is the name of the game here. From the street side food sellers to of course the large enterprises. The worst service came from state controlled places, everyone else was always eager to get the sale no matter what.The pollution wasn’t as terrible as I had expected, but I’m sure it has been worse. There are no rules of the road, at least not enforced - and the right of way goes to cars, the Scooters, then bicycles, and finally pedestrians. But at least they warn you. I haven’t decided if that chaos results in better drivers or worse, but I decided it was safest to look in all directions everywhere when walking because the sidewalks are as likely to have scooters as the bike lanes (much bigger and separated from the main road).Where I was, I might not see another white person for days. I was quite conscious of it. It was intimidating and exhilarating, everyone tried to say hello in English, several times they wanted to get a photograph with me.Law enforcement was very local and comment, but felt more like unarmed security guards. Not intimidating and generally let everyone mind there own business - not authoritarian at all. I did see some police or guards with AK-47s, but that was only once.Public transit was amazing - buses, subways, trains. Easy to use, frequent and though crowded, they seemed the best way to get around.the shear number of KFC restaurants. The Chinese love their fried chicken. Starbucks is common too, but just as expensive as in the US. Most of the restaurants are local mom and pa shops. i was aware the food in China is nothing like the Chinese food in the west. I think I had more tofu than rice. It was good, but my western stomachs could not tolerate the idea of tripe.As for food - most of it is fresh. Even Walmart had live animals (fish, frogs）that you can buy for food. Drinks are room temperature or warmer, it is looked at as being barbaric and unhealthy to drink cold drinks by most people I encountered. The cold soft drinks were still warm for my taste. Chocolate is very limited - mostly just snickers bars.Shopping in malls was similar to America, but there is way more staff. It is like it was before the vast cuts for efficiency in the 80s. The prosperity is very visible. The way things are sold is different. Groceries that are sold by weight are weighed at one of the many stations in the store, instead of the til. Buying clothing didn’t seem so different. At least they were air conditioned. 38 degrees Celsius and 85 percent humidity are not pleasant for a Canadian such as myself. Interestingly enough, when entering these AC palaces of survival, the doors are large thing plastic strips that you just separate like vertical blinds.Of course you can’t visit a city in China without talking about the crowds. Yes it is crowded, but where I was it was never such that I was frustrated. Also, being taller than most people, I could easily see over everyone's heads. There is a very obvious difference between younger generation that have only know prosperity - more western in appearance, more materialistic, willing to hold hands, than with the older generations who grew up in villages and received little education. Their appearance and health seems very different. One beggar women actually grabbed my arm aggressively expecting money. Violently. It was weird.Anyone who could afford to buy a home several years ago when they were dirt cheap, may own several now - and they sell for a huge amount. There is a lot of hidden wealth - it was like what I would have expected from the gold rush days.There are so many more things. It was my first chance to travel overseas. I plan on going back. The people were nice, the speech does sound aggressive - it is not, just the nature of the language sound. I went out for dinner with others often and they were all exceptionally accommodating and friendly. Oh yeah, and Canadian dollars go really far there. 30 dollars got three of us a nice dinner in a decent restaurant in downtown Shanghai.I definitely noticed a more pronounced class-ism though. Not by culture or race, but on education and family status. It seemed heavily ingrained in the culture - a certain disrespect for those of lower education such as farmers or vendors. It’s probably changing - some of those old farmers are pretty wealthy - sold their farms for a lot, and now just sell watermelons. Oh yeah, so many watermelons. Cheap, delicious. Mmmm. Stinky Tofu - smells like shit - tastes great.I felt much safer there than anywhere else I have lived. At night, I never felt like that shady person was planning on stealing my wallet, or going to rob me. Their just seems to be less desperation, and harmony is a strong part of the culture. There were some places that had a bit more of a slum like feel, but not so intimidating as Hastings in Vancouver.Though there is plenty more, I will leave by mentioning the great firewall. It was annoying. The people there are well aware of it. They do complain. They complain about the government openly. They have as many beefs as we in the west, but the tremendous growth in prosperity and the culture gives them less incentive to put up a fight. There is definitely propaganda. On the level of nationalism we see in the US. They think they know about the outside world as well as most Americans who haven’t traveled abroad think they do. Their knowledge is just as incorrect. They know about Mao’s Great Leap Forward, Cultural revolution, Tienanmen, but don’t bring it up, and some thought it was all justified, others think it was terrible, and destroyed much of their heritage. If anything - in Nanjing, people really don’t like the Japanese government, and I can’t blame them considering what happened.That’s enough.(edited for spelling mistakes - I typed the entire thing on my ipad ugh)
Author with the statue of well known artist in the West Lake, Hangzhou, ChinaBackground: I am Canadian citizen and soon in a few years it be close to 50 years in this country, I am from the east Indian heritage. I have had worked in the Canadian dairy/food/flavor industry from managerial to executive positions. I had a good run in this profession for about 30 years and took very early retirement to chase my own dream in another line of work and it has been 15 years and hopefully I keep counting for a long time.In addition I have two master’s degrees one from u of Punjab India in dairy science and the other from u of Guelph Canada, in food science.My Chinese connection: I was born in a small town in Indian region of Punjab, our primary school teacher used to tell us that our neighbor China is very civilized country, in fact when most of the world was living in caves they were studying astronomy. They invented several things which contributed to the advancement of the world.This fired my brain (imagination) and sowed the seed about China/Chinese, also being Indian due to Buddhism and neighbor we saw China very friendly and very good country in the mid 50s. Our relationship with China became sour after 1962 conflict, and China then was very closed country, visa was impossible, and travelling from India was not a joke though my family was reasonably okay. Regardless, my teacher described the word picture and from a tender age of 5 used to imagine the beauty and very nice country of our neighbors.Then I migrated to Canada, but my dream did not die, and then in Canada I had nothing but positive interactions with Chinese, as my professors, class mates, coworkers, neighbors, friends, reports and now business dealings.Finally I made my first and then second trip and now several are in the planning to go back to China. My ultimate goal is to see/explore this country from one end to the other, so far my health allows it, I want to keep exploring this great country,civilization and people.I am very thankful to Chinese authorities to give 10 years visa without any restriction on visits, with maximum stay of 6 months. My Canadian citizenship might have helped to grant such a nice visa, also my Nexus status might have contributed to positive decision.I am law abiding citizen: when in Rome do as Romans do, I am standing, in Tienanmen square, however I was very scared I had heard that security is very tight in there. Regardless, I was free to move around with total freedom. No one bothered me, and I had very nice visit to the Forbidden City.Now the answer to the Question: Simply breath taking beautiful, unbelievable mega country with no substitute on the earth for me. Salute to China and Chinese for such a huge leap. It is totally different what media had played and the impression people have, in my books not even close what so ever. I am no fear to go back again and again, and even live there. My teacher 60 years ago or so was not wrong, he was in fact very conservative, in firing my imagination of this great country.I started with very positive attitude towards China and Chinese, and I was totally blown away the with greatness, politeness, cleanliness, discipline, personal safety, law and order and shear grandeur of land mass and huge population. I already had in my mind but after the visit I am 100 percent decided that my grand kids must learn Mandarin, visit the country several times, and see the length, breadth and height of this continued civilization of over 5000 years. They must learn from it all positive things of hard work, discipline, fine arts, architecture, above all one of the best food in the world. One life may not be enough to try all the cuisine, variety and food culture of China, therefore they should start very early. What more tribute I can give to this great country and people that I wanted to enroll my American born grand kids, with endless choices to live and study anywhere they want, but if I had a say, I want them to go to school in China at least for a few years, where they must learn first hand, what is called hard work and studies, and ying yang of the proper balance in life.Sure China/Chinese have problems but who does not?Sure China has mega problems which country does not but I am very sure China/Chinese have a long history fighting and solving their problems, they have resilience and come through. I know I know I know, I will hear ‘ freedom of speech, slave labor, poor quality, pollution, still lot of poverty, dirty wash rooms, people spitting on the road, ……………………………….this list goes on….. sorry not to mention Google and Facebook, are not available there, but they will just fine without those two luxuries in life, I learned to live without it, and did just fine….well may be a little withdrawal symptoms in the beginning and got over it. Well, Beijing roasted duck and dim sum helped a lot sooth that pain.Please let us check our own back yard first are we as squeaky clean as we portray?My answer to all those : I have lived here in the west soon it be 50 years, and let us check our own back yard, in my view we will find lot of things which are not as glorious as we portray.China has seen lot of ups and downs, such as Mongolian and Manchurian regimes, some of the modern time injustices which included, physical , financial, respect, and humiliation and lose lot of wealth, it is called 100 years of humiliation which included losing HK, opium wars, favorable settlement to other countries , after the fall of The Last Emperor, one visit to Nanjing museum will open your eyes. Well guys now the Dragon is wake and it is not imaginary anymore, as Phoenix has risen from ashes. Say Hello(nihoma) to the new very powerful guy on the street in modern times, he was very powerful in the ancient time, but he is back now.We could think about poverty, slums, homelessness, corruption, frauds, drive by shooting, drugs, sex scandals, and the list goes on,………in the west also. Is democracy that great…….really ?? if it is, the question should be: will it work for massive country in land mass and population in China? let the political pundits decide….I may have my ideas…..but they are not qualified.A word of caution to myself:I decided long time ago, that I will look only positive things in people, living and non living things, write about it so that I may leave some legacy for my grand kids, or who so ever find some merit in it.You want to visit China : please go with very positive attitude, leave the pre conceived ideas in your own country and you will only see beauty in everything (well almost in everything), but no one is perfect, let us say “ Glass is more full than empty) and as the old saying goes wear green glasses you will see everything green.Now let us start with changed impressions after the visit one by one:China is very safe country:After the visit/s based on my observations, experience, and confirmation by my host who is born and brought up Suzhou guy, China is literally free of violent crimes, petty thefts and other low level crimes may be there but I was not too concerned. I saw young girls working in the night shifts by themselves, and walking freely in the middle of night to their home/or night shifts, travelling in the public transports.Women are power houses working shoulder to shoulder with men:I have seen women involved in every walk of life, they are handling the baby in the crib and watching the small shop/stall at the same time with flare, grace and politeness. Bargaining like a very wise small business person, at the airport they are sitting at customs, immigration and other official duties, handling the business without getting flustered with total politeness and respect. To me it looked like most likely Chinese respect their women from heart, I did not see any sign of disrespect or looks. I saw hundreds of school girls dressed in school dresses with load of books on their back more heavy than their tiny body’s could carry, showed me that Chinese are very supportive of their daughters for going to school. In my view China has become so powerful because the women are sharing heavy burden of house hold and outside jobs.Very healthy, smartly dressed teenage school girls, enjoying equal opportunities to get education.Tiny adorable kids have equal opportunities to enjoy field trips and educationWomen working shoulder to shoulder with men in every walks of life,Women are power houses in China, they are working shoulder to shoulder with men.Women are power houses they seem to be very hard working and productive in the progress of China.Once you visit China you realize it is not homogeneous country:No all Chinese are not same, there are 56 recognized minorities with their own culture and main majority is called Huns, they make 90 percent but there there are further classifications.Bravo, still they all live in relative harmony ( at least I have not heard, any mass scale and riots), Sure there may be some issues with some ethnic groups, and I under no circumstances will make a comment, because I do not have any real knowledge of the issues, or qualification to say.I visited famous Muslim Quarters in Xian and found hustle bustle and tremendous amount of life.Author and his wife Sue visited world famous Muslim Quarters in Xian they found the market very nice, tourists and locals were shopping and eating and walking through the streets. These muslims are settled in the area for about 1000 years,Bravo Chinese and China. These Muslim Chinese are called Hue people of China.Muslim Quarters or Street as it is called, in fact there may 100s or 1000s of restaurants and snack shopsWorld famous Muslim Quarters.It is not Beijing and it not Shanghai, the biggest city in China, it is Breath taking city Chongqing, I found out on this trip, it has over 30 million people.Breath taking Chongqing, sky line, Yangtze River flow with all its might.Author with his wife enjoying a moment of Chongqing beauty.Chinese natural beauty can knock as they say anyone’s socks off ( at least they did mine) some of the natural beauty will stay with me for ever: Part 1, as we go I will post more spell bound places.Here are some natural beauty of this country:Following three pictures are taken by the author on the Coast line of Yangtze river between Chongqing and Shanghai.Who Says Chinese do not smile, that is a myth, when you go there you will find they are real people ( well almost all of them) they smile a lot.I know this is very sensitive topic to discuss, but for me it is very important to shed more light on this misconception, Religion in China.I have heard before going to China, that most of the Chinese are atheists, well I was pleasantly surprised, in fact most of the Chinese have found real meaning of the religion and God, because most of them talk about Karma, reincarnation, honesty, hard work, no theft, family values and good deeds. To me they found the ultimate truth they do not have to go any religious place to learn anymore.However what I saw the devotion of some devotees in Buddhist temples it knocked me over, I will not be the same.Here are some pictures of Grand Buddha of Ling Shan, this is 88 meter Buddha statue the largest statue of my lord, and other is bathing of baby Buddha ceremony, I never ever seen anything like this, I and my wife sue visited this temple two times still not enough, I could stay there for ever.Grand Buddha and Baby Buddha of Ling ShanUltra modern state of the art mass transportation at reasonable prices.I never ever realized length breadth of their subway systems in Shanghai subway lines are becoming world model, and who can compete with this monster speed of 431 Km/hr. Here pictures of this train, which covers 30 km in 8 minutes at a reasonable price, these are real pictures taken by my wife Sue and I in Shanghai.China’s pride and joy, Maglev train, which attains maximum speed of 431 km/hour and covers 30 km in 8 minutes down town Shanghai to the airport. Well done China/Chinese, fastest train in the world.Chinese love and affinity for gardens, beautiful landscapes, greenery, water falls, lakes , lush trees and tranquility, are praise worthy, and I learned lot of lessons.The west lake Hangzhou,The country is humming with manufacturing activity and as you see ship loads of finished products, raw material traffic, produce and other goods are moving.A great lesson for me in the hard work, devotion and determination.Ship load of new cars being transported via Yangtze River.Truck and trailers are humming the national highways with raw, finished and produce through ultra modern highways and toll booths.Chinese have total mastery of foods, they know arts, science and business end of the food industry ( in my view Chinese did to food industry what Henry Ford did to Auto industry)Chinese have now the world monopoly of this industry, they have cut down lot of middle men which is a major factor to cut down the cost of prepared food that it does not make sense to cook at home any more. Chinese food has taken over the world by storm, reasons fast/hot/relatively healthy/ meet every pocket from man in the street to the emperor/queen of a country,.When in China you will never go hungry, there is food for every one with a few yuan in his/her pocket, Chinese can feed an emperor/queen and man in the street with a few yuan in his/her pocket. If you are hungry in China is has to an extreme bad luck.Following is a snap shot of some of the places where author and his lovely wife ate, including sitting on the streets of Beijing/Shanghai/Xian and eating it some of the most delicious foods in the world.Chinese street food has mind boggling choices, Chinese food vendors are hustlers ( in a good way) they are determined to make you buy their food.China was the world leader and in my view will stay world leader in Silk production for ever:Chinese history proves it China was the world leader in silk production and that is why ancient Silk Route was developed, after these visits in my mind China will keep this monopoly for ever.Here are some pictures of some steps to Silk production and show room.Some steps to produce world class silk in China, silk worms feeding on mulberry leaves.Silk CocoonsSilk show room in BeijingIn my view most of the Chinese people are very hard working, strong will to live, and I strongly believe, they have found true God through Karma.Here are some pictures of their resilience, will power, most of them very happy, content with cards fate dealt them and they have found true happiness of contentment. This motivated me to work more harder and it recharged my batteries.Rather than bitching, complaining, and finding bad ways to make a living, these are the true “ Karam Yogis and Yoginis” which my scripture described in the holy book of The Gita, (Hinduism) FYI, Buddhism is off shoot of Hinduism. Lord Buddha was born Hindu Prince. I saw that spirit where ever I traveled, great work ethics in their blood per sure ( for most of them, exceptions are and will be there)I observed that most of the Chinese people are very physically active, and in good physical shape.One of the most impressive things was their dances, in the parks, and I believe it is a good exercise, socializing and getting out your stress.These are my general observation, Chinese people are very proud, some may have physical handicap but their self pride is in tact,Following two pictures are great source of inspiration to me, I class them entertainers and not beggars, they my personal inspiration. Bravo hats off to your dignity , pride and this will linger in my mind for ever.Chinese people are too proud to beg, they may have physical handicap but they spirit and dignity is in tact. I do not class him beggar, I class him, an entertainer, and my inspiration.Chinese people are too proud to beg, they may have physical handicap but they spirit and dignity is in tact. I do not class him beggar, I class him, an entertainer, and my inspiration.Chinese seniors are respected and taken good care off, most of them will die in the arms of a grand son/daughter or loving son/daughter/daughter in law.Stay tuned more to come until then : Ding ding ho,
The more I learn about China, the more I realize I don’t know and never will know. That being said, I still have a clearer insight on life in China than I did when I first got here three year ago.Chinese LanguageEverywhere you travel, the dialect is different. While the nation shares a common written language, there is a huge disconnect with spoken language among all Chinese. Every province, and in some circumstances even every city, has its own spoken dialect. The only way for some Chinese to communicate is through written communication since they often don’t understand each others‘ Chinese. That’s why there’s a need for Mandarin (普通话)—a standard language that unifies all of China.As a foreigner in China, Chinese people don’t expect you to be able to speak Chinese. Of course, if you do speak Chinese, even just a bit, they’ll be elated to hear that you’re making an effort to learn about and integrate into Chinese culture. Study for a little while and you’ll blow the minds of locals, especially in smaller and rural areas. It’s quite fun to have a conversation with an older Chinese man or woman because they seem so stoked to be speaking with a 老外.DrivingAt first when I arrived in China the driving looked like absolute chaos. It still does, but I’m not surprised by anything anymore. Driving on the wrong side of the road in front of police officers, making U-turns right when oncoming traffic is heading your way, changing lanes without looking or signaling. It’s all the norm, so other drivers know to look out for it.People use their horns liberally, and nobody gets easily offended by anything. In the States, people take driving way too personally. Chinese drive slowly, but they cut everybody off and honk at each other and nobody thinks twice about it. If someone cuts you off, it’s not their fault; it’s your fault. You allowed enough space in front of you for them to pass. That’s the driving mentality. Everyone plays by the same messy rules, so it works out.FoodDon’t be afraid to try street food. I’ve eaten tons of Chinese street food and I haven’t fallen ill. The only time I got sick was when I accidentally drank tap water, resulting in a two day fit of explosive diarrhea.Seriously though, eating the food of this country is one of the best parts of the immersion here. If you miss out on that, you’re missing out on an integral part of what it means to visit or live in China. There is so much variety in the food that I miss it so badly when I leave this country.Jaded ForeignersSad to say, but many foreigners who visit China don’t really like Chinese food, complain about air pollution, blab about ways that the west is way better at this and that, etc. The expat community here is a bit jaded, especially the ones who’ve been here for a few years or more. My advice: don’t listen to foreigners who moan about China; they’re just dealing with some internal personal issues in the wrong way, by taking it out on the Middle Kingdom.ConclusionThese are just my opinions. I’m not an expert. I’m just a guy who lives here. Thanks for reading.
Oh boy ! This question is special.Even before visiting china, I knew China wasn't just a suppressive communist regime with child labours in giant factories. But the media wouldn't portray it otherwise.It took a lot many trips to the embassy to get me a travel visa but every single trip was worth it.And here's a little secret the Chinese wouldn't let you in on.“It's the most beautiful country in the world”It surprises me is how little they promote tourism internationally. All one pictures of when thinking of China is the Great Wall or the Terracotta Army. But guess what, I didn't visit either. All the places I’d been to were full of domestic tourists and I stuck out like the odd one almost everywhere. (I'm not complaining though, but more in that later) I only got a month’s single visit visa. And I spent all of it in the southern part of China. So let me give you a brief account of my amazing experience in this mystical country.PEOPLE:Just mentioning that people are kind would be such a gross understatement. People are very warm and always greet you with a smile (Not just the formal touristic greet but the genuine humble smile)I was always short for change while traveling and there wasn't once an occasion when some passerby didn't pause to help me. And the help wasn't just instructional or with giving me a change. A lot many of them just put their money, got me a ticket, handed it to me and left with a smile.I didn't have the change to get into a bus in Guangzhou once and was putting in 10 yuan instead but the bus driver stopped me and put in his own money instead, asked me to just settle down.When I was Changsha, I didn't know the metro route and was struggling to figure out with the route map. A woman hurriedly came to me and asked her young son to help me out. He was a school student, probably still learning English. With the little that he could, he stood there, looking into my Apple Maps travel route suggestion and keyed in those details into his phone and started searching. It took him a good 10 minutes to help me sort out the route but he made sure (despite the language barrier) that I got the travel route right. When they proceeded to leave, the mother gripped her son’s shoulder as a sign of appreciation for his help. I could see the humility in her eyes and I couldn't have been more humbled by her gesture.I went to a makeshift food outlet in Shenzhen run by a family (the family probably lived in the establishment) simply coz they endorsed “Halal” on their board. It was a Friday afternoon and I could bravely order a beef stew. The order ran up to 30 yuan. While I waited for my order, the chef pointed her children to say ‘Assalamualikum’ (Muslim greeting) to me. I found this amusing as the kids looked at me with a gaze and surprise and anguish. I extended my hand to greet them and they reluctantly did. Although there were no grounds of communication, I improvised on Google translate and had a good conversation with them. They were Hui Muslim family running a makeshift restaurant. The women ran the kitchen while the men waited and kept the books.After our talk, I wanted to tip big and pulled out my wallet to pay. But they flatly refused. They said, it being a Friday, they wanted to do me good as I'm far away from home. Their gesture moved me.I pulled out my wallet and hurriedly handed the kid a 20 Kuwaiti dinar bill. I told them it would be a memorabilia from a visitor and I'd always remember them in my prayers. Looking at the small designation bill, they didn't protest much. (Little did they know!)There are several other P2P stories about how awesome Chinese are to their guests but I guess you get the picture.NOTE: The Chinese police deserve a special mention as they're the warmest towards a foreigner while being dead strict against their own citizens. (Had a first hand experience when I jaywalked on a busy road)So, if you're planning on visiting China, expect the warmest of people there and keep your heart open.Here are a few pictures for a good measure.We became good friends (coz he spoke English) and I kinda would've been lost in Zhangjiajie without him. He explained a lot of historical and cultural facts from here which otherwise would've lost on me. The tourist guides make shit up (his words not mine!) and he gave me a detailed account of the area’s geography.This woman was delighted to see a ‘black guy’ amidst the mix and just wanted to click a picture for memories. I can't even remember the number of times people walked up to me asking to click pictures (felt like a celebrity !!!)Well, that was about some of the people. Now let's get down to the one thing that caught me by surprise.FOODBeing a Muslim, I had very few culinary options, although there's no complaining about the wide variety of food this country has to offer. Then, being an Indian I'm too spoilt for food options but over here, they were a step ahead of us.Special mention for the Hunanese (Boy ! Don't they cook amazing food) cuisine.I couldn't have asked for better food than what I got in China. Even though I had to stick to fish and prawns, I'd indulge in other food as soon as I could find a restaurant serving Halal food.Hunanese Fish.Dried fishes. (It was quite spicy)Cold Mutton pieces with peanuts? (I’m sorry I forgot the name of the dish)Sichuanese Mutton Pot (with sprouts and a ton of other spices. I guess they had some bamboo in there as well)Spicy Crab (There's no civilised way of eating this. My hands were dirty as I crushed the crustacean in my mouth and my nose ran like flowing river coz of the spices. With my mouth and nose dribbling with juices, I gobbled every last bit of it)Mouth watering anyone ?Alright, here, how about I give you some street food !!!Quail eggs !!!Oysters !!!Crab!I wish I could taste the deer kebabs and I had a strong craving for Yak burgers but my religious duties held me back.NOTE: Chinese fruits deserve a special mention here. Fruits in China are the cheapest in the world. I mean, 2 yuan for a kilo of apple cheap. If you're into fruits, your daily food expenses would drop drastically.So, that was about the food. Let me fill you in on another important factor. And I guess this is probably one aspect the Chinese are leaps and bounds ahead of the rest of the world.INFRASTRUCTURE AND ENGINEERINGSo, you know most of the stuff that you buy comes from China. Well, ‘cheap’ isn't the only reason that companies flock there. There's incredible innovation in Chinese society even for the most basic of tasks.Specially their Civil Engineering accomplishments. They've built some of the most amazing dams, star gazing structures, bridges, aquariums, Opera House, Temples, Tall buildings, water canals - You name it.And then you have the Infrastructure. The infrastructure is second to none in the world. I was amazed at the number of bullet trains they run, their precision, punctuality and over all service.The overnight trains too are almost always on time. Are clean, well ventilated and are damn cheap. (Europe could take some lessons here)Edit: This is going to be a lengthy answer I started writing on a whim. Need more time to frame it well. (Thanks for the appreciation in the meantime)
I have been in Beijing for more than 15 years and not once have I felt threatened in any way. Beijing have always been a safe place from my perspective. One thing that I have come to understand is that if you are a foreigner/expat in China, most locals are nice and helpful both in big cities and small towns as well. Generally, rural China is considered safe by many Chinese. Big cities, especially Beijing and Shanghai- have their headaches - pick-pocketing mostly, but generally safe. Guandong province is notoriously known for its not-so-safe problems (Police pledge to fight gangs in Guangzhou's townships and villages). The hotbed of identity theft, bank card hacking and copying is probably in Dongguan city also in Guangzhou.I once got my passport stolen in Shenzhen (in 2001) when dropping off the airport bus. In those days, the stops for airport buses were not regulated at all. The moment you drop-off, you get this crowd of teenagers swarming towards you with business cards and at the same time feeling your pockets for any thing they can steal. They won't harm you. Luckily for me, they only wanted cash to hand back my passport. I gave them 300 yuan! Today, the airport bus stops are pretty much safer than they were before in Shenzhen.It is refreshing to note that most of these incidences hardly involve foreigners and hence we feel very safe. Guns are very hard to obtain in China so the weapons of choice are knives, swords or cleavers. The government is cracking on these items as well. One thing I gather from my experience here in China is that Chinese are extremely safety oriented. Almost all doors in virtually all apartments are security doors (they call them "burglar-resisting doors") - doors a locked consistently. Most, if not all, communities are gated with security personnel around the clock and only one or less than three points of entry and exit. Incidents of some psychos, driving through kindergartens and schools, chopping kids with swords and knives have created walled schools with no more than two points of entry/exit. At public and even private establishments rarely would you find people leaving their stuff around unattended even for a quick washroom trip. Passwords are entered after looking around and with one hand blocking the view of anyone to the number pad. People are reminded of being safe on almost every opportunity: TV stations, radios, banks, communities, markets, hospitals, ATM locales (sometimes with loud annoying speakers), and LED boards are full of warnings advising people to be aware of their belongings, bank cards, locking doors and windows etc. Posters of recent robbery are distributed (locally and very discreet, if my Chinese was not good enough I will probably not notice) to warn people and to prevent recurrences. Cars are locked consistently with double checking. I was surprised when one of my neighbors kept accompanying her son to a school that was  hardly 300 meters away. When asked, she replied it was for safety reasons (apparently another kid disappeared, mysteriously, in the same area some weeks ago). There are many in China who share her reasons.Having said that, it is still common to hear few incidents of people being robbed, mugged and even murdered. Still it is safe to say that China is generally safe for expats/foreigners.  Just don't work, shop, dine or drive in any Japanese branded company, shop, restaurant/hotel or car when the two countries are having tensions (China protests over Japanese activists' visit to disputed island )!
Here is a List of countries by intentional homicide rate.It shows that China has the 27th lowest murder rate in all 218 countries and regions. And if you take a look at the 26 ahead of China, you'll find most of them are very small countries and cities like Hong Kong, Singapore. Japan is really safer that China. I've been to Tokyo. It really feels safe to walk on the streets even in the mid night. Murder rate in US is 4.7, while the rate in China is 1.0. I've been to LA and NYC. There are so few people except in Manhattan, so I have to look back and keep aware of all around when walking on the lonely streets. Once I was in the metro in LA at about lunch time, a black young man suddenly kept shouting angrily at me. I didn't quite understand what the hell he was talking, but some "fuck... Chinese... fuck"things. So I had to get off the train and take the next one. But I do like San Diego, it's miles more beautiful and people there are more friendly.However, as China is really big and has a huge and complicated population  with 55 minority nationalities, crime rates differs in regions in China. It is commonly believed that:the south is generally safer than the north. among the top10 biggest cities, Guangzhou and Shenzhen are less safer. Shanghai may be the safest.  Yangtze River Delta is the richest, humble and well-tempered region in China. You can only see two guys in Shanghai or Hangzhou quarreling, but they rarely fight. However, people  from the northeast are more likely to solve problems with fists.Sinkiang is the only dangerous province, especially in southern Sinkiang.Some places in the poor and less educated rural areas are not safe. They'll not kill you, but they may steal, rob or extort. For example, some guys may suddenly jump out in front of your car, lay down and than several other gangsters will surrender you extort some $2000 for medical treatment. Of course, the price is negotiable. But if you have less than $100, they may get really angry and give you a good beating. So it'll be wise to always have some $200 cash in your pocket.If you are an expat, you'll surely be safer.  The gangsters know  foreigners have little cash, because you guys always use credit cards. And if they hurt a foreigner, they'll be punished more seriously by the law. So  foreign guys are really not cost-effective to commit a crime on.For girls. I must say that you really have bigger boob power than most Chinese girls. So be a little low-key, if you are alone out there in byways at night or on a crowded metro train. Rapes are very few in cities, but you may be indecently assaulted or sexually harassed.
I’ve written before about why China is safe for travelers and why anyone concerned about visiting should let those inhibitions go. In terms of violent crime, you have little to worry about in China. In terms of theft, just be smart. I’ve never been pick-pocketed myself, but it does happen. If you have a backpack, wear it in the front of your body when you’re on public transportation.Be minimal. I suggest a money clip and using plastic as much as possible. You won’t have any noticeable wallet bulge in your pants if you do things this way. And hold tight to your phone. To avoid scams, don’t talk to strangers who approach you first speaking broken English, especially in shopping districts or spaces that attract a lot of tourists. If someone comes up to you, especially if you’re a man, just keep moving and don’t make eye contact. It might seem rude, but it’s fine and they’ll go away eventually. This is all minor stuff, so don’t be frightened.I teach travel Chinese to people planning to visit China, and there are three other safety concerns I do remind them of before they visit.The first is traffic safety. Though traffic law enforcement is improving in big cities, it’s important that you understand that in China, pedestrians are not treated with the same respect as they might be in your home country. Here are some tips:Under no circumstances should you assume a car is going to stop for you if you are walking in the street, even if the light is green for pedestrians.Remember to look both ways before crossing a road, and to continue looking as you cross. Look out for people making left turns too.The same is true when you’re dealing with cyclists or people on scooters—they probably aren’t going to stop if they’re already in motion, and they frequently ignore traffic lights altogether. You’ll see people riding their bikes and scooters on sidewalks too, so keep your eyes open even when you’re not in the street.Don’t walk around looking at your cell phone.The second is food safety. China also has a less-than-stellar record when it comes to food safety. Tips:Though it may be tempting, I discourage you from eating street food, as there is a chance the food is being prepared with unsafe ingredients, the most common of which is recycled oil.When eating in China, stick to restaurants that are well trafficked or well reviewed. That doesn’t mean you should stick to Western restaurants, it just means going to places that have a lot of visitors.That said, don’t let worries prevent you from enjoying Chinese food, as it’s one of the best parts of the country (here are my favorite Chinese cuisines)! Be wise and be judicious.Take risks in trying new foods, but understand that if you eat something unclean, you might get sick. In most cases, take the risk because it’s worth it and you’ll be fine.Bring medication in case you do fall ill.Never drink water from the tap unless it’s been boiled. Restaurants will not serve you water that’s not been purified through boiling or other means, so don’t worry about drinking water in restaurants!And there is no such thing as fake bottled water. If it’s in a bottle and the top is sealed, you’re good to go.If you’re visiting for a short time, I suggest following my advice on food strictly to avoid getting sick and wasting time. If you’re staying longer, you can and should relax things and try to live more like a local.Finally, there’s air pollution. Air pollution is simply a part of life in China. There is no way to avoid it. This is something many foreigners worry about before visiting, but my suggestion is that unless you have a condition, try not to think about it. From what I’ve seen, most foreigners do not have any problems when they come, but some do cough for a little while. Understand that since you’re probably only visiting, you won’t be doing any lasting damage to your body by breathing normally while you’re here. I think wearing a mask is overkill unless you’re exercising, but it’s a personal decision.Generally, you should not have any worries traveling in China. Have a safe trip!
China is incredibly safe! I am a Mandarin Chinese teacher of 8 years and sometimes I feel that half my job is helping foreigners settle in China. Crime is one of the things they worry about. Within a week, their worries are out the window. But, why?HOW IS THERE SO LITTLE STREET CRIME?Don’t get me wrong, there is crime in China, but you’re very unlikely to be a victim. “Street crime” such as robbery, assault, rape and murder are astonishingly low. In large Chinese cities, I have no fear listening to my iPod and walking home through unknown neighborhoods for two hours in the middle of the night.Travelers and expats appreciate this quality over here, yet can’t seem to explain exactly why it is. Rich and poor are living together. Surely, there are plenty of “opportunities” for crime walking down the streets. So why is China so safe?Here are a few factors that likely influence the low street crime of China:THE SHAME FACTORIn the USA, South America and elsewhere, crime is often glamorized and romanticized. Many celebrities have even been caught exaggerating the length of jail time that they have actually served. Inversely from Asian culture, this criminality builds credibility and respect in the western world, and convicts may even be seen as attractive to the opposite sex.China is different.Not only are street crimes such as thievery and assault illegal, they are also shameful in Asia. The same kind of shame that comes from an abhorrent crime in the USA may be brought on by a “petty” crime such as pickpocketing (in China). The shame is not only felt by the criminal, but also by his/her family, and often by the whole village. While an American may be caught recording or boasting about their assaults on the street, no one in China would think of doing this. With little glory and romance in crime, young Asians tend to aspire towards a more “respectable” financially lucrative career for prestige.IT’S CROWDED AND URBANChina is crowded! In the USA, people often assume “more people + less space = more confrontation”. Since geographical crime statistics are often difficult to discern, this attitude is debatable.Urban activist Jane Jacobs coined the phrase “eyes on the street” to describe why crowded and active urban streets are likely to be safer, as crime is less likely to happen with potential witnesses and everyday heroes that could step in and help.Since Asian and Chinese cities are filled with convenience stores, shopfronts and street food vendors, there are an abundance of eyes on the street to keep one safe on the sidewalk.GENETICSThis would surely be a controversial hypothesis. Many scientists now believe that around 50% of our behavior is based on the DNA we’re born with, while 50% is based on our environment. Therefore, our genes are built on experience from our evolutionary past. This is called the “50-0-50” rule (‘0’ actually representing parental influence).Since China was among the earliest civilizations, and still prospering today, the genetics have been passed down from generation to generation to be harmonious.RESPECT FOR AUTHORITYWith respect and adherence to authority, Chinese citizens are less likely to be a nuisance.Authority can be a government, an employer, or a family. With so many eyes on you, all with high expectations, you’re more likely to grow up to be self-conscious and cooperative.LACK OF SINGLE PARENT FAMILIESTwo-thirds of young criminals in the USA come from single-parent, usually fatherless, families.In China, marriage is often based on a rational compatibility, not love or spontaneity. Couples won’t marry because it sounds like an exciting idea, but rather because it makes the most sense for their future and for their respective families. Once children are born, family members generally assume a role and adhere to it. If there is stress in the family, the parents are more likely to unhappily stick it out to survive, putting others ahead of them.CONFUCIANISM“If you govern by regulations and keep them in order by punishment, the people will avoid trouble but have no sense of shame. If you govern them by moral influence, and keep them in order by a code of manners, they will have a sense of shame and will come to you of their own accord.”Confucius advocated that punishment should take the form of social ostracism, rather than forced suffering. These beliefs still persist today. Confucianism is not a religion, but rather an ethical and philosophical system, which has endless applications within a society. Confucius, the bearded Yoda of ancient China, advocated relationships based on mutual respect and piety, but also strict hierarchy and adherence to law.Even in today’s ever-changing Asia, Confucius still has a great influence. Increasingly, “Confucian Classrooms” are operating in Chinese prisons, rehabilitating inmates by understanding societal harmony and Chinese history. Today, many Chinese are living their daily lives with little knowledge of laws and little contact with the police. However, they are disciplined within their communities by the invisible laws of Confucianism.COOPERATION WITH POLICEIn the US, due to a distrust or resentment of the police, crimes often are carried out with no arrests, as it is difficult to persuade citizens to cooperate and speak to the police. In China, there is a lot of cooperation between police and citizens. This helps lead to convictions.Believe me, follow the rules and you will have a safe and pleasant trip in China!
This Is probably the country where I feel the safest (with Singapore).i have been living in China for a while now and never had any problem apart pickpocket one time.The only time It had been hot was with one of our supplier who didn't want to rework some goods he failed quality control. Otherwise I never have experienced any problem.A good thing in China is safety, get out in the middle of the night the risk to get trouble is extremely low. I have been living in Paris and in the usa and it was much more dangerous there. In Paris you can not get out your smarrphone in the metro …unsafe.China may be criticized for many things regarding human right etc….but I have to admit that their strictness about crime bring for people who are behaving properly a certain piece of mind. They don't joke with crime. They can jail you for several months if you steal and no need a big amount of money to be sentenced 6 months (And this is not hotel style from what I heard)So generally speaking people are not playing too much when it is related to physical safety. I don't know if the fact I am foreigner there has an influence or not (I suppose yes a bit as I heard also some stories of Chinese people getting threaten by other Chinese at ATM or by apartment robery)What is a bit unsafe in China however are cars and bus: they never let you cross street as pedestrian and it can become very dangerous if you try to play against it.
Absolutely.1.Beautiful WritingWhen you fall in love with Chinese handwriting, these characters are endowed with magic power.Many people have practiced Chinese hard-tipped calligraphy since they were young.Like English, there are many different types:2.Deep meaning but with few wordsChinese is renowned for not expressing their ideas in a direct way, actually because it is related to their mother tongue.E.g:如梦令昨夜雨疏风骤，浓睡不消残酒。试问卷帘人，却道“海棠依旧”。知否，知否?　应是绿肥红瘦。Last night the strong wind blew with a rain fine;Sound sleep did not dispel the aftertaste of wine.I ask the maid rolling up the screen.The same crab apple，”says she，“can be seen.”“But don’t you know，Oh，don’t you knowThe red should languish and the green should grow?”P.s.：It kind of damage the artistic conception when it is translated into other languages.3.Interesting pronunciationWhen language learners start to learn Chinese, homophone will become a big problem. Furthermore, like Japanese, when same character combine with others, it will change the tone.
Chinese is the crystallization of the splendid culture developed continuously for over 5,000 years. As China grows stronger, more and more foreigners would like to learn Chinese and Chinese culture. Actually as a Chinese, I cannot say Chinese is the most beautiful language in the world which may look so arrogant, but there is no doubt that it can must be one of the most beautiful languages.Chinese possesses many advantages over other languages. Written Chinese is based on a set of ideogram characters. From a simple word one may obtain a wealth of information about its hidden meaning, evolution history and related phrases. Historians can decipher the damaged ancient characters carved on ox hones but no such achievement could be obtained with Latin-based languages. To express a given idea, the Chinese version is always the shortest, most accurate and most effective. Moreover, Chinese kids learn Chinese by memorizing patterns or funny pictures which stimulate curiosity and imagination. What＇s more, in some ways, Chinese is also easy to learn. Many foreigners speak Chinese fluently after a few years of learning.And I would like to take a TV drama that is popular these days as an example to show how broad and profound Chinese is. If you have learned Chinese, you can feel the difference in artistic conception after translated into English and some sentences will be lengthy.This drama, which is adapted from a same name novel called <三生三世十里桃花> and in English it is called ‘Life after Life,Blooms over Blooms’. And if you translate it word by word, it is called ‘Three Lifetimes and Ten-Mile Peach Blossoms’.我自是百般推脱，他自是千般盛情。I of course, did my best to excuse myself, while he, naturally, pressed on with all graciousness and courtesy.累世情缘谁捡起，谁抛下，谁忘前尘，谁总牵挂。忆当时年华，谁点相思，谁种桃花。This fated love of forever and a day——Who has picked it up? Who has thrown it away? Who has forgotten it all? Who yearns for it to stay?光晕一层一层，打出斑驳的印记。桃林十里，娇烂漫红，千朵浓芳，一只只缀乱云霞。那艳霞低下立着的玄衣青年，眉如泼墨，鬓若刀裁。Halos of light rippled and splashed. In the acres of peach trees, pink blossoms bloomed, breathing out sweet perfume. Beneath the rosy clouds and scented mists stood the young man, all dressed in black, his eyebrows as dark as if painted with ink, the hair above his temples as sharply outlined as if cut with a knife.桃花灼灼，枝叶蓁蓁，妖娆伤眼。The peach blossoms are radiant, the leaves luxuriant, their allure stunning.
举个栗子 for exampleI will use the primary school English translationaaaa….. I feel so ShameA small storyThe ancient Chinese余少能视鬼，尝于雪夜野寺逢一提傀儡翁，鹤发褴褛，唯持一木偶制作极精，宛如娇女，绘珠泪盈睫，惹人见怜。　时云彤雪狂，二人比肩向火，翁自述曰：少时好观牵丝戏，耽于盘铃傀儡之技，既年长，其志愈坚，遂以此为业，以物象人自得其乐。奈何漂泊终生，居无所行无侣，所伴唯一傀儡木偶。　翁且言且泣，余温言释之，恳其奏盘铃乐，作牵丝傀儡戏，演剧于三尺红绵之上，度曲咿嘤，木偶顾盼神飞，虽妆绘悲容而婉媚绝伦。曲终，翁抱持木偶，稍作欢容，俄顷恨怒，曰：平生落魄，皆傀儡误之，天寒，冬衣难置，一贫至此，不如焚。遂忿然投偶入火。吾止而未及，跌足叹惋。忽见火中木偶婉转而起，肃拜揖别，姿若生人，绘面泪痕宛然，一笑迸散，没于篝焰。 火至天明方熄。　翁顿悟，掩面嚎啕，曰：暖矣，孤矣。The ancient Chinese can not be translated into EnglishFirst translated into modern Chinese than translated into English————————————————————————————————————我小时候能看见鬼，一个雪夜里在一座荒寺里遇见一位手里提着木偶傀儡的老翁、这老翁白发衣衫褴褛，但是他的木偶却制作精良，活脱一美娇娘，眼和睫毛都挂着泪珠，让人见了心生怜爱。When I was young, I can see the ghost. In a snowy night I meet an old man in the Temple.He has long white beard and white hair and wore very old clothes .But the puppet is very delicate and beautiful, like a pretty girl。————————————————————————————————————外面风雪更大了，于是两人干脆坐着一起烤火，老人便自诉道：年轻时喜欢看木偶戏，为了学习钻研木偶戏，耽搁了时光，学会了，年龄也大了，但是对此也更加坚定，于是便以木偶戏为职业Outside the snow more. so we sat around the fire and began to chat.Old man said when he was young，he like to see puppet showin order to study puppetry.He lost his time miss his life and loveNow he was old，but he can’t change to love and acting puppet showSo he took acting puppet show as his career————————————————————————————————————虽然自得其乐，但是却一生漂泊，居无定所，没有伴侣，唯一陪伴的就是木偶了，老翁一边讲着一边哭泣，我安慰他，恳请他伴奏，做傀儡戏，He was happy and enjoy his career but he don’t have home，Wife and children.Only the puppet is accompanying him.The old man began to cry.I comforted him for a long time and I hope he can perform a puppet show————————————————————————————————————他提着木偶在三尺红布前表演起来，木偶，吟唱悠扬，顾盼神飞，虽然画的是悲伤的妆容，但是却美丽绝伦Finally, he carried the puppet show up in red clothThe beautiful puppets dance with the sounds of the soft musicI'm totally addicted to it. So perfect and impressive…————————————————————————————————————表演完了，老翁抱着木偶心情稍微平复了下，可是突然愤怒的说：我这一生落魄，都是被你所误，天冷了连衣服都买不起，贫寒到了这里，不如把你烧掉，于是便把木偶扔进了火里the show over… Old man holding the puppet become to calm down..Suddenly he was angry to said “My life is very poor and suffering, all because of you , even clothes can not afford to buy,so cold ！so cold ！ burn you！ burn you！free me！ free me！”then he put the puppet into the fire.————————————————————————————————————我来不及制止，只能跺脚，哀叹惋惜这木偶。It was sudden that I could not stop him，just feel sorry for the puppet————————————————————————————————————忽然看见这木偶自己慢慢站起来，悲凄的对着老翁，作揖，行叩拜之礼以示告别，仿佛活人一般,笑着淹没于大火之中。but we surprised to see the puppet slowly stood up . face old man to bow with hands clasped she was sad but she smile to old man thanks for him….like a real human….After Say goodbyeThe puppet disappeared in the fireWe were silent and stunned for a long time until the next day。————————————————————————————————————火到了第二天才熄灭，老翁幡然醒悟，捂着面大哭的说到：是暖和了却真的只剩我一人了。The fire has gone out. The old man finally wakes upHe covered his face crazy shouting the name of the puppet and cryHe said to the gone out fire.“Yes I’m free and warm……………….Yes I’m free and warm”“ But only alone me in this world…………”————————————————————————————————————According to the storyThis MV for youLyric嘲笑谁恃美扬威Mock whose bluffed beauty没了心如何相配Which match is without a heart盤铃声清脆The handbell rings clear帷幕间灯火幽微The light between parocheth flickers我和你 最天生一对You and I are born best pairs没了你才算原罪It is losing you that is the original sin没了心才好相配It is losing a heart that makes our match你褴褛我彩绘Ragged you and painted I并肩行过山与水Walked by mountains and by water你憔悴 我替你明媚You are gaunt, but I shine for you是你吻开笔墨Your kiss melted the dye染我眼角珠泪That becomes the drop of tear at the corners of my eyes演离合相遇悲喜为谁For whom we perform parting, meeting, pain and joy?他们迂回误会They wander and wonder我却只由你支配But you are my only master问世间哪有更完美Are there a thing more perfect in this world?兰花指捻红尘似水In the pointing of a little fingerThe world of mortals flows by三尺红台 万事入歌吹On a high stage several feetEverything goes like songs唱别久悲不成悲 十分红处竟成灰Sorrow prolonged is no more sorrowWhere there is purest red nothing but ashes is left愿谁记得谁 最好的年岁Prey who remembers whose best ages你一牵我舞如飞You pull the string and I dance like I fly你一引我懂进退You drag the string and I move back and forth苦乐都跟随Following no matter bitterness or joy举手投足不违背Never disobey in slightest movements将谦卑 温柔成绝对I turn modesty into absolute gentleness你错我不肯对I don't want to be right when you are wrong你懵懂我蒙昧I am ignorant when you perplex心火怎甘心扬汤止沸Who wants to pour out the water to stop the boiling of your heart?你枯我不曾萎You shrink but I never wither你倦我也不敢累When you get tired I dare not get weary用什么暖你一千岁With what can I warm you for a thousand ages风雪依稀秋白发尾Though wind and blizzardYour hair whites灯火葳蕤 揉皱你眼眉Light flickersBringing wrinkles to your eyes and brows假如你舍一滴泪If you will spare a drop of tear假如老去我能陪If when you are old I can stay by your side烟波里成灰 也去得完美Burning to ashes in a whirl of smokeCould be my perfect leave﻿Yiwei FANG thanks_______________________________________________________________________Just study chinese and feeling the meaning lyric belong the MVIt’s different between EnglishChinese is the most beautiful language in the worldWe have dozens of words describing the different states of the same things same feelings………..If you want to describe a girl looks goodgood-lookingbeautifulprettyhotfabulousattractivegorgeousstunningcharmingenchantinglovelyand….some I can not find outIf you want to describe a girl looks good in chinesethese are a little bit of the chinese美丽贤淑、美丽大方、倾国倾城、大家闺秀、小家碧玉、闭月羞花、沉鱼落雁、倾国倾城、温婉娴淑、千娇百媚、仪态万千、国色天香、花容月貌、明目皓齿、淡扫峨眉、清艳脱俗、香肌玉肤　仪态万端、婉风流转、美撼凡尘、聘婷秀雅、娥娜翩跹、俏丽多姿、风姿卓越、顾盼流转、清丝纠缠、举步轻摇、艳冠群芳、剪水双瞳、美艳绝伦、神仙玉骨、楚楚动人、温柔善良、风姿绰约、顾盼流转、清丝纠缠、举步轻摇、手如柔荑、肤如凝脂、领如蝤蛴、齿如瓠犀、螓首蛾眉、巧笑倩兮、美目盼兮、冰雪聪明、惠质兰心、通情达理、翩若惊鸿、貌若天仙、环肥燕瘦、窈窕淑女、秀丽端庄、艳若桃李、花枝招展、温柔可人、活泼可爱、亭亭玉立、如花似玉、软玉温香、兰质蕙心、秀外慧中、楚楚动人、明眸皓齿、天生丽质、睿智、淑德、贤惠、文静，优雅、纯朴、清秀、可爱、聪颖、灵秀、俊俏、俊美、美丽、大方、温柔、可爱、单纯、纯洁 、明艳不可方物
I don't know if they are all beautiful.  LOL I lived in the Netherlands when I was a child and while I find the sound of Dutch to be soothing like the smell of Grandma's cookies, its extremely gutteral and even the Dutch joke about how it is definitely not beautiful. I feel Cantonese is also not so gentle on the ears and it has a certain glottal thing that sounds like someone is getting ready to retch.French gets a lot of play when people talk about romantic or sexy languages but I find it nasally and not so attractive to hear.  Its association with Romance is likely just do to the Roman influence and the Romantic reputation of the city of Paris itself.The soft consonant sounds of Mandarin however can be very beautiful when spoken smoothly and in a low voice.  My wife's spoken Mandarin varies from her "phone voice" or the way she reads aloud which just makes me crazy, to the harpy shrill, chalkboard shredding sounds of her disciplining our son when he gets out of hand.  But I imagine who the speaker and their mood and tone has a pretty strong effect on the beauty or flinch factor of many languages.Still Im pretty sure you can rank them and Mandarin definitely falls higher on the chart of linguistic aesthetics than Dutch, Cantonese or most Arabic dialects....at least to my ears.
Mandarin is most suitable for modern Chinese.While Cantonese is more suitable for traditional peoms.Wu language is commonly recognised as the most beautiful language, sounding like opera.The harshest should be one of some unknown Hunan dialects, using it, even a romantic private conversation between lovers could sound like a intensive altercation.
Is there persecution of Muslims in China? No.Is there a crack down in XinJiang Autonomous Region against separatists and terrorists creating violent unrest and murdering citizens. Yes.The crack down is not persecution of Muslims by China.Several “traditional Islamic separatist movements that have existed in China for some time,” such as the East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM), a Uighur separatist organization that China and the United States have labeled a terrorist organization. Beijing often blames Xinjiang unrest on the ETIM, while maintaining that Uighurs enjoy “unprecedented religious freedom” in China.XinJiang Autonomous Region is north of Tibet and touches Afghanistan and Russia with larger borders with India, Pakistan, Tajikistan, Kyrgyzstan, Kazakhstan and the country of Mongolia.The Soviet Union with Russia and the Soviet- stans fueled the unrest in XinJiang and fought a border war with China there in the ‘60’s.Now it is Radical Islam and ISIS and … whoever.XinJiang now has hundreds of fighters with ISIS in Iraq and Syria who have been heard to say, “When we come home, the streets will run red with Han blood.”The Han’s are the majority in China, and in my ‘lao laowai Intenational Consultant working on the high risk business side with the high risk security side guys’ opinion, China absolutely does protect ethnic minorities. Yes … protects minorities.One China.China does not persecute Muslims.A crack down is happening.It’s kind of like Calexit for the People’s Republic of California and Don’t Mess with The Republic of Texas which ‘has the only right to secede’.Muslim separatists and ISIS in China and Calexit and Texas? It’s not going to happen in China, and it’s not going to happen in America.
Persecution?They enjoy much more privileges than general Han people.“Did you hear of Halal tissue? ”Halal toilet for Muslims only.A bus dedicated to Muslims(it runs on the road without a license plate).Counters only for Hui people in a supermarket.Wards for Muslims in a hospital.Halal salt for MuslimsHui people enjoy 10 bonus points in civil service examination in Gansu, the same as the families of the policemen who died in line of duty.“Preach Islamic doctrine to 1.3 billion Chinese people”I think some Chinese Muslims are more devoted than many Arabians in Middle East or those so-called Muslims in Europe. At least you seldom hear of things like Halal tissue or Halal salt. Though a number of them don’t read much Quran, they would get pissed when they hear the word “pig” or see other people eating pork to emphasize their Muslim identity. Last year, two professors proposed that it’s necessary to legislate to manage the Halal industry, and the people who counterfeit Halal food would be sentenced to imprisonment for life or even death. Of course many of them enjoy alcoholic drinks somtimes, not sure if they have invented Halal alcohol, but anti-pork seems to be the ultimate goal in their life. Well, in China, there are other religions that have food prohibition. Buddhists are vegeterians; Taoists cannot eat beef, fish, dogs and geese, but non of them asked to set up dedicated canteens in campus or a law to manage things like “Buddhist food” or “Taoist food”.And when you are offended or blackmailed by these Muslims, even the police would persuade you to compromise, because it’s not politically correct to disrupt “national unity”.Maybe living in a non-Shariah country is a persecution to them. I appeal to Saudi Arabia to accept these mawali and offer them a Shariah life.
Yes, but the Chinese government isn’t persecuting them because they’re Muslims but because of the demands for secession. See, there are ethnic groups in the west of China who are known as Uyghurs and other Turkic peoples. They happen to be Muslims and they have been wanting to separate from China for a while due to cultural differences. China’s government has a strong and widely popular One China Policy which exists and is being propagated to keep China united, especially when many of China’s enemies want the country to be divided *cough* America *cough*. So what is happening is that in order to stop the Uyghurs from forming or organising some sort of rebellion, they are closely monitoring them and restricting certain rights of theirs.I really disagree with this, however that is the reality. Yes, there may be cases where Uyghurs are persecuted for being Muslims, but most of the time it’s because they are seen as a threat to stability in Western China, nothing to do with their faith.
No, of course not. On the contrary, there is only persecution of non-Muslims in China.The so-called 宗教信仰自由 (freedom of religious belief) and 少数民族优待政策 (preferential policies for minor ethnicities) in China is really “too much” that it even persecutes the major ethnicity - Han Chinese people. There are halal salts, Muslim-only toilets, halal foods anywhere in China, and even Muslim-only counters in some shops. Han Chinese people have no such preferential policies, but Muslims have!!!!This is the reason why there is a black humour called “the People’s Islamic State of China”.
There is something you need to know before understanding China’s issues:What the CCP government suppresses is not freedom of speech, or criticizing the government and public figures. Instead, it is radicalism that will be strictly inspected and controlled.It applies to all Chinese citizens. Many Muslims live in the border areas so that they do not know what the Chinese Han also face. They can easily refer to this as Islamic persecution. Also, because some Muslim separatists are under the shelter of some foreign governments outside of China (e.g. Turkey and the US), they do have some chances to speak about the situation, which of course factors into their own benefit.When I compared these to the situation and different stories I have personally encountered elsewhere in the world, I believe that persecution of Muslims in China does not exist in general, but any separatism and fundamentalism in the name of religious freedom will certainly be repressed instantaneously and crudely.(Sometimes there can be tensions in those precautionary measures….)
The question is based on incorrect assumption. British didn’t pull out of Hong Kong because they felt it was morally wrong. If anything they should have been morally obligated to stay as majority of Hong Kong residents wanted status quo.Now, let me explain why it’s unreasonable to expect China to get out of Tibet.Tibet is not a colony. It’s an annexed territory, and Tibetans are Chinese citizens. Furthermore, Han Chinese now outnumber Tibetans in Tibet. Most westerners think China annexed Tibet in 20th century, but Qing had direct administration in Tibet for over 200 years prior. Tibet’s independence movement in late 19th century, which was sponsored by British (to put Tibet under its influence), was never accepted by Chinese government. 200 years is a long time… when do you think the U.S. will return the land to the native Americans? or California/Texas back to Mexico? Furthermore, if China should be let go of Tibet, Xinjiang should be let go as well. Inner Mongolia should go to Mongolia, and Manchus should be allowed to secede as well.Green and Pink area are territories annexed by China under Manchu rule. If Tibet is a fair game, so are rest of the territories.More than half of China’s territory gone… Factually speaking Tibet has just as much rights as any other territories in the world that wants to secede from their host nation, no more, no less. Yet, somehow western world is incapable of using the same yardstick on China. This is what’s bothering the fuck out of Chinese people.How many former states in the following list should be given their land back?List of former sovereign statesAnnexation and secession of countries are dirty businesses, but it happens and has caused tremendous good as well as bad in history, it’s not a simple matter of right or wrong. Furthermore, about 29% of Tibetans support independence from China based on survey conducted by Tibetan exile government, that doesn’t sound like a majority to me. In fact, it’s less than the percentage of Scottish people who wanted to secede from United Kingdom in the last independence vote in 2014 where 44% of Scotish wanted independence. Yet, I don’t see Alex Salmond winning a Nobel peace prize… (For those of you who don’t know him, Alex is the former Scottish First Minister and one of the biggest proponent for Scottish independence.)Scottish independence referendum, 2014Tibetan exiles discuss China policy | The NationalNow, how silly would it be if Chinese government and its media propped up Lakota native American tribe that currently has an active separatist movement, and proclaim that America should give its states, North and South Dakota and Montana, to the Lakota people? Western countries’ support of Tibetan independence movement is largely viewed in the same light in China.
From 600 years ago, when Yuan Dynasty first appointed Dalai Lamas as the spiritual leaders in Tibet to PRC’s peaceful liberation in 1951. Tibet was NEVER an independent country. As long as the name “Tibet” existed, it has always been part of China. No countries in the world recognizes Tibet as a country.Not forced into incorporation (Panchan Lama, Mao Zedong, Dalai Lama, 1951)The signing of Seventeen Point Agreement for the Peaceful Liberation of TibetBefore 1951, Tibet lamas were theocratic rulers of the Tibet Autonomous Region. In millions of Tibetan, 200k of the population were monks. Other were slaves and serfs. When the bayonets of the State's Liberation Army in Tibet, the last of all on Earth, slavery was abolished.After the liberation of Tibet.....Tibetan population in Lhasa Administered Tibet has increased from 1.2 million in 1951 to almost 3 million in 2007.Infant mortality has dropped from 43% in 1950 to 0.66% in 2000Life expectancy has risen from 35.5 years in 1950 to 67 years in 2000Death rate of women in childbirth: 5,000/100,000 in 1951, 175/100,000 in 2010Tibet has 22,500 km of highways, all built since 1950The GDP of Tibet Autonomous Region (TAR) today is 30 times that before 1950PRC has spent more than 8 billion yuan subsidizing farmers children in Tibet to attend boarding schoolsIlliteracy rate was 90% in 1951, today 98.8% children enrolled in public schoolsPRC offered 15 years of free education, most classes taught in the Tibetan language, only mathematics, physics, and chemistry are taught in Chinese.The list goes on.........Beijing is clearly a better choice for Tibet!
Britain forced Qing empire to cede a piece of its terriory after 1st Opium War, the Hong Kong island.Then in another treaty, Qing ceded Kowloon peninsula.Then in another treaty, Qing leased “New-Territories” to Britain for 99 years.So China have righteous claim over Hong Kong, when it decided to tear up these unjust treaties.Xizang was once a powerful kingdom untill 10th century named Tubo, intermarry and fight with midlander’s Tang dynasty generation by generation. But it collapsed several decades before the fall of Tang, then never again re-build after shattered itself into pieces.Xizang have never been any form of independent country since then. Not even close, after Qing seized fully control over it in late 17th century. The emperor assign its theocratic leader from candidates the local offers, the empirial government have garrison and governor in Lhasa.Qing had never ever cede Xizang to any other country. Xizang have never declared independence even after the fall of Qing or in the chaotic ROC era. “Can’t regain effective governing” does not mean lost sovereignty, just think Aleppo under IS control still belongs to Syria.So, Xizang is part of China.The British could keep Hong Kong in their hand after 1949, only thanks to Mao spared them. CCP decided PLA should to stop at the shore of Shenzhen River, the border of New-Territories, intending to save a small window to get access to western world.Current British government performed quite pragmatic, as they already learnt enough how tough and bad-ass CCP would be when facing foreign occupation after HMS Amethyst Incident on April 1949. London recognized PRC as the sole legal regime of China in 1950 in return of the favor.That 99-year rent treaty was only used as an excuse to support this trade, have no constraint force, just indicating the tacit would end by that time.When it comes to July 1982, Thacher paid a visit to Beijing seeking to grasp the Pearl of East for longer. She once had quite high confidence because of recent victory in Malvinas, but very soon she got stomped over by Deng Xiaoping’s might.“If we can’t take back Hong Kong after half a century the People’s Republic have been found, the government shall be nothing better than late-Qing court, Chinese leaders would be remembered as Li Hongzhang! (who signed the treaty rent New-Territories)”“We Chinese is a bit poor. But once at war, more than enough of us don’t fear death.”“Reach an agreement or not is inessential. Anyway, if not offered other option, China shall start unilateral re-unite progress in 1984 .”Soon Thacher compromised, offered Kowloon and New-Territores to China, only try keep Hong Kong island. Deng answered then he gonna cut every single kind of supply, food, water, electricity, etc. towards Hong Kong. China was willing to suffer the decline of trading, to force UK feed its colony on its own.Britain surrendered to China’s determination and power. The entire Sino-Brit Negotiation about HK had nothing to do about the final result, only the protocol of handling-over.So basiclly, Britain got kicked out of HongKong, after China threw a crystal-clear BOW or DIE ULTIMATUM at Mrs PM’s face. Knowing have 0 chance, Brits conceded, chose to negotiate how gentlely China should be, while carving the stolen Pearl out of Queen’s crown.Try to force China do such a compromise, by any means you can imagine, just let anyone try it.Last time someone do such thing was CIA in 1950s. It trained fled aristocrats and their loyal couriers in the mountains of Colorado, then permeate these agents into Xizang, in attempt to incite an uprise.Given formidable terrain and altitude, the ethnic identity, very small number of PLA garrison, CIA believe that they were assured to prevail.It worked, the largest revolt happened after 1949 outnumbering local PLA 5 to 1. Not very long before the rebellion got literally annihilated, mostly by former serfs and slaves withhold fanatical support to central government.Now Xizang get railway, highway, electricity, obligated education, healthcare, billions of annual subsidies from rich provinces. The living standard of Zang people dwarfing any other country on Himalaya.But, still, you can continue what CIA gave up 50 years ago, will ya?
Tibet acquired Buddhism from China, having previously ignored it. The founder was a Chinese princess married to a Tibetan king - quite a common pattern for missionary religions to spread.Whenever Tibet had a government, it recognised the Emperor of China as overall ruler. See How Tibet Emerged Within the Wider Chinese Power-Political Zone.The Dalai Lamas have an undeserved reputation. The reality was rather squalid, see The Strange History of the Dalai Lamas.
Hong Kong has been one part of China for hundreds of years, until the British robbed it from the weak Qing Dynasty government of China and made HK its colony. It’s right for Americans to be free from the UK, so it’s right for HK to be free from the UK, too.As you see, the old Empire of Great Britain let all its old colonies gain their independence after World War 2. So HK is no exception.And most important, it’s more of a contractual thing than just a noble act. The Qing Dynasty and Britain signed a “renting”(HK) contract of 99 years, and in 1997 it was up, according to the paper China and Britain signed a century ago. So it’s time to return.Another thing you need to know is China is neither like Europe or the USA, we have a long tradition of unification, even more than a thousand years.Europe had many kingdoms for hundreds of years, so it formed a few countries now. The USA was initially 13 indepedent colonies willing to be united. But we formed a single united kingdom for the first time 2200 years ago, and the tradition went on and strenghtened itself. Even though there are short breaks and civil wars in this long long period, most of the time it’s a united nation. So we share the idea of one nation very naturally, and could not bear tearing apart the country.In fact, even though politicians have great powers in China, none of them dare split the country. It’s a severe crime for any political leader, far more serious than really big scandals and corruption.As for Tibet, there was slavery before the CCP entered. I have a few friends who are Tibetans, but they wouldn’t think it’s a good idea to be “a single country”. You should go to Tibet and see what common people really think instead of just listening to a few comments here. They could not represent fellow Tibetans, like IS could not represent all the muslims. Maybe they just want slavery back and be slave owners again.
Most countries have Han Chinese, so in a sense, most countries are culturally close to China.However, if what you mean is which nation is culturally closer to China, then that’s an easier answer. Nation is identified as “a large aggregate of people united by common descent, history, culture, or language, inhabiting a particular country or territory.” So in a sense, nation means groups of people with common cultures.So that will leave Han Chinese, Yamato Japanese, Koreans, and Kinh Vietnamese. Namely, Mainland China/Taiwan/foreign Chinese, Japan/foreign Japanese, North/South Korea/foreign Koreans, Vietnam/foreign Vietnamese. Unsurprisingly, they’re the only ones with Chinese-derived names in English: Chin(ese) 秦, Japan(ese) 日本, Korea(n) 高麗, Vietnam(ese) 越南. In short, they’re collectively called the Sinosphere, or nations within Chinese cultural sphere of influence.Notice I don’t have Singapore in any of them, simply because Singapore is a highly Westernized country that aims to have blends of multiple cultures, so while Han Chinese is the largest population, that doesn’t mean Singapore is culturally Chinese. In fact, it’s a very big mixture between British, Chinese, Indian, and Malay cultures.Also, I will be talking about traditional cultures, not modern culture, because in modern culture, everyone is culturally similar since globalization connects everyone. Majority of humans in this Earth now wears modern clothing, namely a shirt and pants/skirt. So everyone looks the same and culturally similar as well.LanguageThese 4 nations have a history of Chinese influence in their languages. They all have at least 50–60% Chinese-derived loanwords, usually for complex terms. The most common names for individuals in these nations are Chinese loanwords, and only Japanese have a lot of native Japanese names (but mostly still written in Kanji). An example for Chinese loanwords is the word for student (I will be using Cantonese and Mandarin for comparison, since Mandarin evolves very far from Middle Chinese of Tang dynasty, when majority of these loanwords were loaned to other countries).Mandarin: 学生 xuéshēngCantonese: 學生 hok6 saang1Korean: 學生 (학생) hagsaengVietnamese: 學生 học sinhJapanese: 学生 (がくせい) gakuseiAnother example is the term “world.”Mandarin: 世界 shìjièCantonese: 世界 sai3 gaai3Korean: 世界 (세계) segyeVietnamese: 世界 thế giớiJapanese: 世界 (せかい) sekaiAll these 4 nations also used Chinese characters as their official writing systems (Chinese Hanzi, Vietnamese Han Tu, Korean Hanja, Japanese Kanji)China (Hanzi)Japan (Kanji + Kana)Korea (Hanja + Hangeul)Vietnam (Han Tu + Chu Nom)ArchitectureThe Sinosphere’s architectural designs and elements are all derived from Chinese architecture. Japan borrowed from Tang China, Korea borrowed from Tang to Ming China, Vietnamese borrowed from Tang to Qing China. However, the most visible cultures are probably cultural borrowings from the last dynasties, so Japan would be Tang-influence, Korea would be Ming-influence, and Vietnam would be Ming-Qing influence.[China (top left) - Japan (top right) - Korea (bottom left) - Vietnam (bottom right)]Traditional ArchitecturesImperial Palace GatesTemples in snowCovered bridgesTraditional GardensInterlocked wooden brackets (Dougong)FashionChina was like the America of ancient East Asia. Everyone wanted to follow their fashion. Therefore, they all adopted Hanfu (漢服). However, as times passed, although the Chinese influence was still there, they all evolved into something distinct. Japan has Wafuku (和服), Korea has Hanbok (韓服), and Vietnam has Viet Phuc (越服). Each dynasty differed, however, but the final attires that are now used to represent each nation is distinct and is very beautiful.Han dynasty Quju vs. Edo period FurisodeMing dynasty Aoqun vs. Joseon dynasty Chima JeogoriROC period Qipao vs. French period Ao Dai (although Ao Dai was derived from Ming Aoqun, it bears resemblance to Qipao due to both nations being Westernized at around the same time, meaning similar sense of fashion) and Ming dynasty Aoqun vs. Nguyen dynasty Ao Nhat BinhJust to give a comparison, here is historical illustrations of each nation’s fashion at the same time periods: (from top to bottom) Ming China, Le Vietnam, Joseon Korea, and Edo Japan (Edo Japan was the only one not influenced by Ming dynasty and retained Tang influence, so it looked quite distinct from the rest).BeliefAll the Sinospheric cultures have a history of the Three Teachings, or Buddhism, Taoism, and Confucianism. Buddhism is present in all 4 cultures and is deeply embedded in ancient and modern times. Taoism has faded, but its influence is present in every nation’s values and native religions, namely Chinese Taoism (duh), Japanese Shintoism, Korean Muism, and Vietnamese Dao Mau. Confucianism, while not a religion, is a cultural practice and teaching that is present in all 4 nations.Confucius depictions in China (top left), Vietnam (top right), Japan (bottom left), and Korea (bottom right)Buddhist depictions in China (top left), Korea (top right), Japan (bottom left), and Vietnam (bottom right)Taoist temple in JapanTaoist temple in VietnamTaoist symbol in South Korean flagThose are the three main ones that I believe defines Sinospheric cultural bonds. However, if you want to see some more minor traditional elements, here they are.Traditional arts were all influenced in some way by Chinese arts.Each nation has their own versions of mooncakes for the Mid-Autumn Festival that was a tradition for centuries.Speaking of mooncakes, each nation also celebrates the Mid-Autumn Festival for centuries.Speaking of Mid-Autumn Festival, each nation celebrated Lunar New Year for centuries (although Japan abolished it for a Western calendar, they still celebrate Lunar calendar holidays). Therefore, they all have the Chinese 12 Zodiacs, but with a few twists. Because they followed the calendar, they also had East Asian age reckoning, although that concept is slowly fading away.And because each nation celebrates Lunar New Year or a derivation of it (*coughJapancough*), each nation has their own style of giving out money in Lunar New Year.Each nation’s traditional calligraphy were all derived from Chinese calligraphy.Each nation also had their version of female entertainers that sold entertainment for a living (including selling your own bodies sometimes). They were Chinese Huakui (top left), Vietnamese Dao Nuong (top right), Japanese Geisha (bottom left), and Korean Gisaeng (bottom right).The Sinosphere also had centuries-long tradition of chopstick use, following Chinese customs.They also had centuries-long tradition of tea cultures, all derived from China.Politically, they were all a form of monarchy (although they all had feudalistic governments at one point, especially Japan) that followed the Chinese model. The picture below illustrates the royal and imperial fashions of royal and imperial concubines and wives of Emperors and Kings of the last non-Westernized periods.Also, coincidentally, all 4 nations had a history of civil war between 3 divisions. The picture below illustrates the images of the victors, with 3 divisions’ names in black, and the victors’ names in white. These civil wars were called Three Kingdoms Period of China (top left), Tay Son Rebellion of Vietnam (top right), Three Kingdoms Period of Korea (bottom left), and Sengoku Period of Japan (bottom right).There are more, like traditional styles of sitting (Japanese and Koreans sat on the floor like Chinese during Han to Tang dynasties, Vietnamese sat on raised platforms like Chinese in all dynasties, and while Chinese did all of those, they preferred tables and chairs in the late periods), Tang-style poetry, burning of incense, medicines, food preparation practices, usages of Four Symbols, Four Benevolent Animals, and Four Gentlemen in art, centuries-long lion dances derived from China, music and dance influences from China, Chinese influences in traditional martial arts, how the last eras of all 4 nations were Neo-Confucians, how all 4 cultures had their versions of the Cinderella fairy tale, the 5 Elements, how the Four Beauties and Four Classic Novels of China influences ancient and modern Sinosphere cultures, weapon styles influenced by Chinese styles, wine variants, cuisines (specifically rice and certain noodles), traditional court operas, traditional masks, usages of mandarin squares for government officials in ancient times (for Japan, it was only in Ryukyu).Even in modern times, the Sinosphere continues to influence one another and the world. Anime influences the entire world, and now Chinese and Korean animation are Japanese-influenced. Manhwa, Manhua, and Manhoa are also influenced by Manga. Jdrama also influenced Kdrama and Cdrama, and Kdrama now influences Cdrama. Manga and anime continues to be cultural inspirations for Korean, Chinese, and Vietnamese films. Hallyu influences pop music of Vietnam, China, and Japan (who originally influenced Kpop). Chinese influenced Korea and Vietnam through Cantonese films from Hongkong. Sadly, though, Vietnam hasn’t influenced anything yet ¯\_(ツ)_/¯.If anyone wants to see reconstructed traditional clothing of Vietnam, please visit my blog. Vietnam is the least-known culture within the Sinosphere, after all, so everyone automatically associates it with the rest of Southeast Asia and Indosphere, when it's not culturally related to any of them.
Japan is like Tang Dynasty China.South Korea is like Ming Dynasty China.North Korea is like Mao Dynasty China.Vietnam taken on much of Chinese culture since Han Dynasty.Taiwan is what an enlightened pan-Asian union may look like.Hong Kong is heavily influenced by southern Chinese culture with a hint of Brit.Singapore is like Hong Kong, with Peranakan aka Malay aka SEAsian influence.Macao or Macau is like Hong Kong, but Portuguese rather than British.The USSR was the model of the ROC and PRC for its nationalities policies.Italians are really similar to Chinese. That was the first impression I got in Italy.
I'd say Vietnam. Vietnam is more “Chinese” than any other countries in the world, including Singapore and Taiwan ( if you consider it as a country). Korea once was very similar to China, but then Japan colonized it, which made them a little bit “Japanese”. And then China went through a communist revolution, and then a capitalist reform. Hence, neither North Korea nor South Korea is quite similar to China anymore.Vietnam on the other hand, share a Confucian tradition with China; they also went through a communist revolution (and the communist party is still in power), and eventually they also had a capitalist reform. Both Vietnam and China are very populated countries with low GDP per capita. The only thing that makes Vietnam less “Chinese” is the fact that Vietnam had been colonized by France for a long time, and thus French culture has a great influence in Vietnam.
None. The country which is culturally closet to China is China itself. You might want to take North Korea, South Korea and Japan into consideration. But these East Asian countries are all quite different with China in terms of social culture, although they were influenced by the Chinese civilization.It all depends how you define “culturally similar”. If you think European countries are similar with one another more or less, then China, Koreas and Japan could also be considered to be similar with one another more or less. But my four years’ working experience in Germany, France and Switzerland has made me realize that European countries are actually quite different with one another in social culture. The way works in Germany will never work in France, not at all. The people who support European Union would tell you “we share a lot more similarities than you think”. This may not be wrong. But you could say the same thing towards China, Koreas, and Japan. According to my experience, Germany and France are not culturally very similar with each other. By the same logic, I wouldn’t say North Korea, South Korea and Japan are culturally very similar with China.
Singapore, since the population is 3 quarter Chinese and many are still able to speak their dialects. It is closer to the southern China though. Also, parts of other countries with a high Chinese concentration is also very similar to China, for example, Queens, New York.Otherwise, I would say Korea and the Japan are the closest without being actually Chinese. Then a close third would be Vietnam, which was influenced heavily by China in history.Of course I have to be politically correct to ignore Taiwan :D
Warning! I have included some stomach churning photographs.The Nanking Massacre was not an anomaly. It was standard wartime behavior for the Japanese army in WWII.I look upon their behavior with teeth clenching horror.Here is a list of countries invaded, conquered, or occupied by Japan before or during WWII:ChinaSoviet UnionMongoliaVietnamCambodiaLaosUnited StatesMalaysia (UK)SingaporeHong Kong (UK)Dutch East Indies (Indonesia)Timor (Portugal)Australia by seaNew Zealand by seaBurma (Myanmar )IndiaBritish New Guinea (Papua)The PhilippinesAndaman and Nicobar Islands (India)Straits Settlements (Singapore)Brunei (UK)Nauru (Australia)Guam (USA)Imphal (India)Wake Island (USA)Gilbert and Ellice Islands (UK)Christmas island (Australia)ManchuriaTaiwanKoreahttp://www.japan-talk.com/jt/new...Their behavior was generally barbaric. The Japanese were one of the most racist societies in history right up there with and possibly worse than Nazi Germany. They believed their superiority gave them to right to treat their inferiors any way they wanted and they left a swath of 10 million or more civilian bodies in their wake.Civilians were shot, bayoneted, beheaded, mutilated, buried alive, raped in a frenzy of sadistic butchery across Asia wherever they went. Mustard gas and biological agents were used. Medical experiments were done. Pregnant women had their fetuses cut out and both left to die in pools of blood. POWs were murdered, starved, worked to death, used for bayonet practice, decapitated, and eaten.https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ja...https://www.hawaii.edu/powerkill...The Japanese have a long history of insincere apologies. Part of the reason is the populace is protected from the facts about their WWII atrocities and are actually encouraged to think of themselves as the victims in the war. Sometimes so outrageous is this denial that there are accusations that reports of atrocities are an American attempt to coverup their own warcrimes.http://time.com/5546/japanese-nh...https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Na...http://www2.biglobe.ne.jp/remnan...If the Japanese were to genuinely regret and express this regret like the Germans did then I think they could look forward to being accepted back into the community of Asian nations. But instead their denials continue unabated so the tension persists.Captured photos. Like the Germans the Japanese liked to record their atrocities:Burying alive was standard operating procedure for prisoner disposalNankingBeheadings were done for sportNankingBayonet practiceI have not included the most gruesome photos.
I am an American. I have never been to Asia.I have no bias to either country, other than a love of both cultures. Or I didn’t, until I learned about this.The massacre, aptly named “The Rape of Nanjing” has been called a genocide because it was a slaughter of civilians without any reason–The city had already been captured.And not many, but still too many, Japanese people are literally denying any such “conflict”. Everyone else just calls it an exaggeration or demands “proof”. Some of the Japanese do acknowledge it.You know how, in the Western world, Holocaust deniers cause disgust in the regular population? This is like if the entire country of Germany continued to deny the Holocaust, or called it an exaggeration.But like, there are also photographs of young corpses with bayonets sticking out of vaginas littered across the city. Women and little girls were systematically raped, household by household, and then murdered. Children's genitals were sliced open to make rape easier for the Japanese soldiers. A pregnant woman was resisting rape, so she was disemboweled, fetus removed, then raped after death. This is all eyewitness accounts by locals and foreigners, film, photographic, primary source evidence.And of course the 100 heads contest, which turned into decapitating 150 Chinese civilians.Who cares if it was 300,000 people or fewer?The Nanjing Massacre is by far the most fucked up thing Japan has ever done, and they literally have memorialized some of the criminals responsible.Japan needs to apologize. I read the Wikipedia article, saw some of these pictures, and I want to call into work in the morning. So I can throw up. And cry.It was like Genocide for Fun.Edit: What a response…!Many have noted the culture of shame and honor in Japan, and how admitting to these atrocities/ “apologizing” would be impossible in that context. I see your point.But an apology? It acknowledges that these things happened. Because currently, the war crimes aren’t really acknowledged. That’s how things get omitted from schools, and textbooks. That's how Southeast Asians and Koreans and the Chinese stay bitter.When bad things like this happen, when humans do terrible things to other humans, it must be taught. So it does not happen again. We must learn history, as an example of what not to do.Don’t bitch that the Chinese government uses the massacre as propaganda to distract the people and keep them in line. If Japan had apologized, they wouldn't be able to use it.It still happened. And more people in Western countries should learn about it. Why not, just because it didn't happen to us? What about Rwanda? What about the Balkans, Cambodia? The famines in the USSR?My opinion of Japan has changed drastically. Before, since we fucking nuclear attacked them and somehow have a good relationship now, I respected what I considered a modern and free country. But this totally changed my mind.I still have no hard feelings toward Japanese people, since obviously it's not their fault, and just like the rest of Asia, I can't live without Japanese shit.Edit 2: Stop trying to invalidate my answer because I'm American and “not aware of our own mistakes”. You are making that shit up- I do know what we've done. This question is not about America, so sit the fuck down. I'm unenthusiastically American. And I'm sick of my nationality being used to cheapen what I think about the Nanjing Massacre.
Most of them probably aren't aware of it. Those that are aware of it probably each have their own opinion of it, but my guess is that the majority of them think it was a horrific act.There really isn't much to think about it other than being shocked and horrified at the horrible depths to which human beings can sink.
I'm from Nanjing. Conincidently I talked about this massacre with a Japanese person years ago.My English is not that good:)))) hope you can understand what I'm writing lol.By the end of this answer I'll post some pictures about that.I was born in Nanjing. I'm now a freshman in Nanjing .Remembering Nanjing Massacre is really necessary for everyone from this city.In Nanjing, since I was born, I'll always remember that date: 13th December,1937—-known as the biginning of Nanjing Massacre for Chinese people.Since I was in primary school, until now, in 13th December, the alarm rings all over the city, reminding people of that day. People will always stand still, whatever they are doing, they just stand, and mourning for the victims of Nanjing Massacre. It's really awesome and sometimes I'm proud of that because We are always trying to remember the history.There's a memorial museum for the victims of Nanjing Massacre. It presents people with some photos, books, weapons or something else related to that massacre…there are also some bones of..victims.There's a really huge wall inside the museum, carved with names of victims.MORE THAN 300,000 names. There's another equipment in the museum, it is called “seven drops of water” Every seven second water drops, resembling one person died because of the slaughter.Whenever I visit that place I feel sad and angry.The huge wall. On the left and right side carved with names of victims. In the middle the screen shows faces of victims.Bones of victimsAnother place is near my home where Japanese people made a big slaughter. It's near YangZi River.What impressed me most is that one rainy day I rode a bike on the road. Studdenly I found a bunch of flower in front of the monument. The flower is fresh.There are always some people remembering the history.Another small incident is when I was in high school. One Monday, one history teacher in my school told us about her story. Her family was ruined by that massacre and a lot of people died. She lived. Then she cried..she's chocking with sobs…It’a really tough for those Nanjinger who went through the terrible massacre and will always be a nightmare..There are less than 100 survivals. But we will never let the truth and history scatter in the wind.I’m not saying that we should hate Japan. On the contrary we need to learn a lot from the massacre:The corrupt and lag of China is the reason why we are killed and massacred. We need to be strong.We are not to hate. Hate is about the former generation. What we should know is that peace is a good thing. We should forget about hate and cherish peace.We should remember the history and learn from the past. We need to remember because both for China and Japan we are avoiding making such mistakes.Finally here’a what Japanese say about Nanjing Massacre
You asked me to answer this question, but I know my answer is going to disappoint you and this is an honest answer as A Japanese. I had been hesitating to answer after getting A2A, because I just remember the "word" Nanjing Massacre.   Textbooks and education differs by generation.  I am in my 30's and don't remember what I learned in junior high or high schools,  and for me back then, history was just a subject that I had to pass tests, and I was just busy memorizing what happened in which year.  This is just my experience and I don't know about other genetations, but I think schools focused more about telling us what happend between the US and Japan.  I remember that I saw some videos about the bombing in Japan and attack on Pearl Harbor.  This is just what I think, but as for Japanese, only people who are interested in history know well about Nanjin Massacre.I am a person who was wondering why Japanese government has to keep apolozing Chinese and South Korean governments.I started using Quora several months ago and Quora users' answers are helping me learn about what Japan did.
Warning! I have included some stomach churning photographs.The Nanking Massacre was not an anomaly. It was standard wartime behavior for the Japanese army in WWII.I look upon their behavior with teeth clenching horror.Here is a list of countries invaded, conquered, or occupied by Japan before or during WWII:ChinaSoviet UnionMongoliaVietnamCambodiaLaosUnited StatesMalaysia (UK)SingaporeHong Kong (UK)Dutch East Indies (Indonesia)Timor (Portugal)Australia by seaNew Zealand by seaBurma (Myanmar )IndiaBritish New Guinea (Papua)The PhilippinesAndaman and Nicobar Islands (India)Straits Settlements (Singapore)Brunei (UK)Nauru (Australia)Guam (USA)Imphal (India)Wake Island (USA)Gilbert and Ellice Islands (UK)Christmas island (Australia)ManchuriaTaiwanKoreahttp://www.japan-talk.com/jt/new...Their behavior was generally barbaric. The Japanese were one of the most racist societies in history right up there with and possibly worse than Nazi Germany. They believed their superiority gave them to right to treat their inferiors any way they wanted and they left a swath of 10 million or more civilian bodies in their wake.Civilians were shot, bayoneted, beheaded, mutilated, buried alive, raped in a frenzy of sadistic butchery across Asia wherever they went. Mustard gas and biological agents were used. Medical experiments were done. Pregnant women had their fetuses cut out and both left to die in pools of blood. POWs were murdered, starved, worked to death, used for bayonet practice, decapitated, and eaten.https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ja...https://www.hawaii.edu/powerkill...The Japanese have a long history of insincere apologies. Part of the reason is the populace is protected from the facts about their WWII atrocities and are actually encouraged to think of themselves as the victims in the war. Sometimes so outrageous is this denial that there are accusations that reports of atrocities are an American attempt to coverup their own warcrimes.http://time.com/5546/japanese-nh...https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Na...http://www2.biglobe.ne.jp/remnan...If the Japanese were to genuinely regret and express this regret like the Germans did then I think they could look forward to being accepted back into the community of Asian nations. But instead their denials continue unabated so the tension persists.Captured photos. Like the Germans the Japanese liked to record their atrocities:Burying alive was standard operating procedure for prisoner disposalNankingBeheadings were done for sportNankingBayonet practiceI have not included the most gruesome photos.
I am an American. I have never been to Asia.I have no bias to either country, other than a love of both cultures. Or I didn’t, until I learned about this.The massacre, aptly named “The Rape of Nanjing” has been called a genocide because it was a slaughter of civilians without any reason–The city had already been captured.And not many, but still too many, Japanese people are literally denying any such “conflict”. Everyone else just calls it an exaggeration or demands “proof”. Some of the Japanese do acknowledge it.You know how, in the Western world, Holocaust deniers cause disgust in the regular population? This is like if the entire country of Germany continued to deny the Holocaust, or called it an exaggeration.But like, there are also photographs of young corpses with bayonets sticking out of vaginas littered across the city. Women and little girls were systematically raped, household by household, and then murdered. Children's genitals were sliced open to make rape easier for the Japanese soldiers. A pregnant woman was resisting rape, so she was disemboweled, fetus removed, then raped after death. This is all eyewitness accounts by locals and foreigners, film, photographic, primary source evidence.And of course the 100 heads contest, which turned into decapitating 150 Chinese civilians.Who cares if it was 300,000 people or fewer?The Nanjing Massacre is by far the most fucked up thing Japan has ever done, and they literally have memorialized some of the criminals responsible.Japan needs to apologize. I read the Wikipedia article, saw some of these pictures, and I want to call into work in the morning. So I can throw up. And cry.It was like Genocide for Fun.Edit: What a response…!Many have noted the culture of shame and honor in Japan, and how admitting to these atrocities/ “apologizing” would be impossible in that context. I see your point.But an apology? It acknowledges that these things happened. Because currently, the war crimes aren’t really acknowledged. That’s how things get omitted from schools, and textbooks. That's how Southeast Asians and Koreans and the Chinese stay bitter.When bad things like this happen, when humans do terrible things to other humans, it must be taught. So it does not happen again. We must learn history, as an example of what not to do.Don’t bitch that the Chinese government uses the massacre as propaganda to distract the people and keep them in line. If Japan had apologized, they wouldn't be able to use it.It still happened. And more people in Western countries should learn about it. Why not, just because it didn't happen to us? What about Rwanda? What about the Balkans, Cambodia? The famines in the USSR?My opinion of Japan has changed drastically. Before, since we fucking nuclear attacked them and somehow have a good relationship now, I respected what I considered a modern and free country. But this totally changed my mind.I still have no hard feelings toward Japanese people, since obviously it's not their fault, and just like the rest of Asia, I can't live without Japanese shit.Edit 2: Stop trying to invalidate my answer because I'm American and “not aware of our own mistakes”. You are making that shit up- I do know what we've done. This question is not about America, so sit the fuck down. I'm unenthusiastically American. And I'm sick of my nationality being used to cheapen what I think about the Nanjing Massacre.
Most of them probably aren't aware of it. Those that are aware of it probably each have their own opinion of it, but my guess is that the majority of them think it was a horrific act.There really isn't much to think about it other than being shocked and horrified at the horrible depths to which human beings can sink.
I'm from Nanjing. Conincidently I talked about this massacre with a Japanese person years ago.My English is not that good:)))) hope you can understand what I'm writing lol.By the end of this answer I'll post some pictures about that.I was born in Nanjing. I'm now a freshman in Nanjing .Remembering Nanjing Massacre is really necessary for everyone from this city.In Nanjing, since I was born, I'll always remember that date: 13th December,1937—-known as the biginning of Nanjing Massacre for Chinese people.Since I was in primary school, until now, in 13th December, the alarm rings all over the city, reminding people of that day. People will always stand still, whatever they are doing, they just stand, and mourning for the victims of Nanjing Massacre. It's really awesome and sometimes I'm proud of that because We are always trying to remember the history.There's a memorial museum for the victims of Nanjing Massacre. It presents people with some photos, books, weapons or something else related to that massacre…there are also some bones of..victims.There's a really huge wall inside the museum, carved with names of victims.MORE THAN 300,000 names. There's another equipment in the museum, it is called “seven drops of water” Every seven second water drops, resembling one person died because of the slaughter.Whenever I visit that place I feel sad and angry.The huge wall. On the left and right side carved with names of victims. In the middle the screen shows faces of victims.Bones of victimsAnother place is near my home where Japanese people made a big slaughter. It's near YangZi River.What impressed me most is that one rainy day I rode a bike on the road. Studdenly I found a bunch of flower in front of the monument. The flower is fresh.There are always some people remembering the history.Another small incident is when I was in high school. One Monday, one history teacher in my school told us about her story. Her family was ruined by that massacre and a lot of people died. She lived. Then she cried..she's chocking with sobs…It’a really tough for those Nanjinger who went through the terrible massacre and will always be a nightmare..There are less than 100 survivals. But we will never let the truth and history scatter in the wind.I’m not saying that we should hate Japan. On the contrary we need to learn a lot from the massacre:The corrupt and lag of China is the reason why we are killed and massacred. We need to be strong.We are not to hate. Hate is about the former generation. What we should know is that peace is a good thing. We should forget about hate and cherish peace.We should remember the history and learn from the past. We need to remember because both for China and Japan we are avoiding making such mistakes.Finally here’a what Japanese say about Nanjing Massacre
You asked me to answer this question, but I know my answer is going to disappoint you and this is an honest answer as A Japanese. I had been hesitating to answer after getting A2A, because I just remember the "word" Nanjing Massacre.   Textbooks and education differs by generation.  I am in my 30's and don't remember what I learned in junior high or high schools,  and for me back then, history was just a subject that I had to pass tests, and I was just busy memorizing what happened in which year.  This is just my experience and I don't know about other genetations, but I think schools focused more about telling us what happend between the US and Japan.  I remember that I saw some videos about the bombing in Japan and attack on Pearl Harbor.  This is just what I think, but as for Japanese, only people who are interested in history know well about Nanjin Massacre.I am a person who was wondering why Japanese government has to keep apolozing Chinese and South Korean governments.I started using Quora several months ago and Quora users' answers are helping me learn about what Japan did.
WOMAN IN CHINAWoman in China is secure, enjoys her freedom and works very hard in whatever field she is working into. China, as Asia’s biggest economy and manufacturing giant, no doubt has a very strong and dedicated female participation in this achievement.  One can see Chinese woman working almost in every field like shops, cabs, hotels, restaurants, bus drivers, agents, taxi drivers besides they are in traditional sectors like Education, Army, Hospitals and in factories manufacturing almost everything in the world.  This was a pleasant experience to see them enjoying their freedom, as they almost seems to be in total control in hospitality sector of Chinese Railways, Chinese Airports /Planes/Airports , Chinese Bus Stands and they work shoulder to shoulder with male counterparts without any visible discomfort.  During my stay of two weeks and travelling extensively from Shanghai to Tibetan Plateau, not a single time I was able to see any man taking interest in any woman, ogling or staring at someone. Now, this observation also includes those faces too, which I marked as “Not Good” .  I saw them travelling alone late night metros and bus services and even driving cabs in night. As a India born, such sight in a Asian country, I am sure is rare. A strong economy comes from a safe and secure woman. I am sue, India has to learn a lot from China. What Chinese aggression and heavy headedness is promoted by international media – I could not see any such trait in them. I haven’t noticed anywhere in China where they are going “over” – it looks as they know and understand importance, responsibility of their role and they are equally acknowledged by their companion and families.  Chines do not show much “ Westernized “ emotions in public and love and romance is limited to hugs, a arm around waist like gestures. Husbands/ Boyfriends were seen holding woman purses – and she was leaning to his arm or freely walking carrying herself like a queen.  One more thing, which I so far, could not see is, anger and aggression in male voice while interacting with woman in public. And not only anger or aggression, I have yet to see teasing, leg pulling like common male traits. I don’t think such behavior might not be there, but it seems they are careful in their conduct in public.I had my share of crooked and pissed of woman working in pharmacies and shops, where they were least interested in exploring ways to communicate with a alien, they simply negate..” May Yo “ is big NO, as soon as you try to make a conversation. But such simple and natural experiences are acceptable in a country where Non-Chinese speaking people are aliens. Source: Woman in China
Being a foreign woman in China is quite a different experience to being a Chinese woman in China. I've been living in China for over 6 years and I'll tell you 5 crazy things that have happened to me here and what I think they mean for women in China. Here's a little backstory: I came to China alone, having graduated in 2008 when the economy was awful for jobs. I chose to find a job in Chengdu, since it was off the beaten track. I didn't want easy access to foreign products and English-speakers, I wanted the real deal. I figured if I was going to be in China, I'd better be in China, if you know what I mean. Here are some of the things that happened to me in my first years living in China, you may choose to believe me or not, but none of this is exaggerated. If you've read this far, don't stop at this list, I don't want to give you the wrong impression. I actually love China, though it may not look like it at first, so if you've made it this far, keep reading!For each of these points, I'll explain what I think was happening and how that relates to being a foreign woman in China. All of my lingerie was stolen from my balcony when I left it hanging on the line to dry. When I walk down the street, I often turn around to see a line of people following closely behind me like ducklings. A gas leak in my apartment caused me to pass out in the shower and when I awoke I found that the hospital had put me in front of a big glass window (I was still wet and still naked). A group of construction workers curiously stood around chain-smoking and watching the show. I am often called a Russian prostitute on the street and sometimes cars slowly follow me as I'm walking. I've been on Chinese TV multiple times.So let's break these down and see what we can really discover about being a foreign woman in China. By the way, if you have any questions or want to hear more, I have a podcast that talks all about what it's like to live in China. Find it here: www.writtenchinese.com/podcastNumber 1 : Let's Talk about the Undies! My underwear mysteriously went missing after I had been in China for about a week. I made the mistake of leaving it on the line to dry overnight, and a sneaky thong bandit crawled up my balcony and snatched them! I have a few theories about this. First, this happened back in 2009, and at that time online shopping in China was still far from being refined. I would bet that back then, very few people ordered their panties online, so they were left to choose from whatever was sold at the local shops. China is traditionally much more conservative when it comes to sexuality than the West, so often this means a lot of high-waisted granny panties and forget about any luscious fabrics like silk and lace. My theory #1: It was a young women who snatched them to impress a boyfriend or husband. China being as conservative as it is; maybe my panties being on display for several hours was a bit too risque and offended one of the neighbors. My theory #2: An uptight older lady pulled them down to teach me a lesson. Where I was living was close to a high school. Several of the children from that high school lived in the same complex where I was living.My theory #3: Some teenage boys couldn't resist, and then distributed my garments like Halloween candy to their mates. I'll never know what actually happened, but one thing's for sure: Foreign ladies in China, dry your undies INDOORS!  Number 2 : Chinese Ducklings will Follow You AnywhereLet me clarify something when talking about this one: I was not living in a particularly urban area. I was near Chengdu, but still quite a distance from the actual city. The surrounding area was countryside, so a lot of people I encountered were farmers or factory workers. Whenever I would go out on the street, I would attract a lot of attention. It still happens today where I live in Shenzhen, but it's much more mild than before. These days most Chinese people are used to seeing foreign men here and there, but foreign women can still be a spectacle. At that time, when I would go out, people would be so intrigued about what a foreigner might like to buy or eat, that they would follow me around snapping photos and giggling. I imagine I got a tiny taste of what it's like to be a Hollywood starlet. Though I have days where I just want to disappear into the crowd, for the most part this phenomenon is a big advantage. It's easier to get higher paying jobs, get special treatment at the local spa, and I don't think I've ever paid for a drink at a club. Being constantly watched is something you get used to, and if you learn to see the benefits, you really can't complain.  Number 3 : The Monkey in the Hospital ZooI remember clearly waking up in that hospital bed after getting knocked out by CO. Safety standards in China have definitely improved, but there are some things you learn the hard way- like NEVER open the window between the shower and the gas water heater. Fortunately I was living with a roommate who noticed that I had passed out and in a panic, he scooped me into a blanket and rushed me to the hospital. In the chaos, he didn't grab any clothes. When I came to, they had me hooked up to some IVs and although they had attempted to cover me up, there was definitely more on display than I would have wanted. I guess they put me in front of a big glass window for several reasons. First, maybe they thought the light and sounds would revive me. Second, they probably had never had a foreign patient at that hospital before. Having me there for the world to see likely brought the place some kind of prestige. Finally, maybe this is standard procedure and I'm looking too far into it.  Whatever the reason was, I'm sure that there are some Chinese constructions workers out there who still reminisce about the time they saw a nude foreign girl in the window. Number 4 : I'm not Russian!If you're a young foreign white woman in China with a slight build, then you have no doubt been called a Russian. I can't tell you how many times I've been in the elevator and people are talking about the "Russian Miss", thinking that I don't understand what they're saying. You have to understand that many Chinese people can't comprehend why an American girl would want to live in China. Chinese people are generally very pragmatic and after all, as Americans we can make more money at home where we have voting rights and clean air. There is a large amount of Russian women who come over to China as 'dancers', to take advantage of the burgeoning economy. It's for this reason that many people assume that I am a lady of the night. Whether I dress casually or not, someone somewhere will call me a Russian. On 6 or 7 occasions I've had guys following me in their cars while I walked to work in the morning. I guess they are looking for 8am nookie?! I will say though, that I've never really felt unsafe. While their catcalls and wandering eyes can make me feel uncomfortable, these kind of run-ins are few and far between and have never escalated beyond a nuisance. I've had WAY worse in other countries, trust me. In fact, China is probably the most low-key country I've been to when it comes to getting harassed on the street. Still, it's a weird thing being propositioned in broad daylight. But don't go feeling sorry for me, the ones who get it the worst are the decent Russian girls who come here to make an honest living. Number 5 : It's Showtime!Wow, have you really read to the bottom of my answer? I'm flattered! I hope you've gotten some insights into what it's like to be a Caucasian foreign woman in China. While there are some crazy things that can happen, in a nutshell being a foreign woman here means you have many great advantages, and a few minor annoyances. I wanted to end with this idea of being on TV to demonstrate just how cool it can be in China as a woman. Due to the fact that foreign women are still the oddballs here, people often jump at the chance to grab an audience's attention by having our faces on advertisements, billboards and TV shows. If you've ever wanted to be a star and loved by millions, China is the easiest place to do it. I've been offered quite a few modeling jobs and I'm 5' 7"! I'd recommend any woman to come to China and see for herself. It's safe, it's a great learning experience, and you'll definitely take some stories home with you. Remember, if you have any more questions for me about life in China. Go to the podcast link above and ask me ANYTHING! Or you can see what I'm up to at the software company here at: Written Chinese 
What does it feel like to be a woman living in China?I’m a Shanghainese woman so…… I noticed I shouldn’t be complaining about life. Because if I do, many people will tell me to go to hell. One easy way to tell about a woman's life is to look at the man next to her. And Shanghainese men are famous known for:The Versatile Ma Da SaoMa da dao is Shanghainese slang meaning, “shop, wash, cook.”The exception is when the term is used to describe men in Shanghai — guys who don’t just shop, wash and cook, but famously do so without complaint…..The Professional Bag CarrierWhen shopping with her Shanghainese boyfriend or husband (yes, Shanghai men shop, remember “ma” from point number one?) the Shanghai female doesn’t need to carry any bags, including her own petite purse….Family PrideChatting with a married Western man, you may need to wait hours before he mentions his wife. Chatting with a married Shanghainese man, you may need to wait hours before he stops talking about his wife…..ToleranceThe relationship between mother and daughter-in-law is like an active volcano in the Middle Marriage Kingdom. But the Shanghai husband’s legendary tolerance can single-handedly turn a lava flow into a pile of dead ashes, or a volcano to be enjoyed and admired like Mt. Fuji…….Masculinity in DisguiseShanghainese men simply see it as their responsibility to provide their families with a wealthy life. Their outlook is, “I’ll make all the money and deal with all the ‘bei-ju,'” a internet phrase in China meaning “everything tragic.”…..[Shanghai men]These might be considered “whipped” by outsiders, but a Shanghainese man will tell you proudly that it’s their pleasure. (No kidding) The superpowers of Shanghai husbands allow them to actually have fun in malls and salons.One Shanghai government official once openly stated: “We Shanghai men not only know the importance of supporting the family financially, but we also know the importance of emotional support and always show consideration to our wives.”How did the relationship between Shanghainese men and women evolved into today?Honestly, I don’t know. Everything just seems so natural in Shanghai. (I’d be happy to hear what everybody thinks….)
I don't know about being a Chinese woman in China (and I think Faye Wang perfectly answered the question) but I can tell you about being a western expat woman living in China, in Shanghai in particular.In my experience, living in China as a woman was very different on one point: safety. Shanghai is pretty safe when you're an expat, a woman in particular, and it really changed my life as I was not afraid of going out late at night, alone and wearing a skirt. I'm sure some people will disapprove as I obviously do not represent the majority of woman in China, but it is something that we shared with my girlfriends there. You can go out in the weirdest district but nobody would tease you or hit on you, same thing in the country when I visited Yunnan or Shanxi.Finally, maybe I feel this way because Paris is not so safe anymore for ladies, but it was really appreciable not to have guys hitting on us all day and being rude.
I spent my early years in a prefecture level city. I may have been one of the luckiest little girls in the world, because my dad used to say "you are a human being first, a woman second. Don't ever let anyone look down on you because of your gender." He made sure my extended family treated me with the same respect they gave to the male cousins.I don't live in China now, but I still go back quite frequently. I'm so optimistic seeing the emergence of the independent women who ask themselves "what do I want to accomplish with my career? who am I and what do I stand for as an individual?" - something that rarely existed for my parents' generation. But at the same time, these same women ask me "is it possible for a feminine woman to do that?" This is for tasks like negotiating effectively, or coming out on top of traditionally male / or any field.This concept of "feminine woman" seems to be causing a mental glass ceiling for these women. I suspect many of the self made, white collar women have been dumped or shafted from romantic relationships because they come off as "non feminine" or "too intense". The recent PR campaign "Leftover Women (http://en.wikipedia.org/(wiki/Sheng_nu) shaming independent single women didn't help either. I wish I could make these women understand that they are more beautiful and stronger than they have ever given themselves credit for.Despite the down sides, I think the status of women in China is better than it has ever been. And maybe one day soon we can all celebrate the beautiful, independent, successful Chinese woman.
It means you are speechless. It’s abbreviation of 我勒个去, which is origins from northeast dialect.To translate, I’d prefer HOLY SHIT! Only that 我去 is more mild, and sounds less rude.
depends on context.“谁去买酱油？”（anybody buy me some soybean sauce?）“我去。”（I’ll go/ do it.）“冰箱门又没关！”（you left fridge door open, again!）“我去！”（*in regret* oops…）“我车子撞了。”（my car crushed.）“我去！”（*in surprise* what?）“国足今天又他妈输了。”（national soccer team just had another epic fail today. ）“我去！”（holy shit!）
It depends on the context.①我去=I will goeg. -今天下午你去图书馆吗？(Will you go to the library this afternoon ?)-是的，我去。(Yes, I will go. )②我去=Wow.In this situation, it means “赞叹”,etc.eg. -小明期末考试得了第一名。(Xiaoming is the number one in the final examination. )-我去。他太棒了！(Wow.He is great !)③我去=Gosh/unbelievable.In this situation, it means “amazed ”or “incredible”,etc.eg. -小明期末考试得了第一名。(Xiaoming is the number one in the final examination. )-我去。这不可能！(Unbelievable. It is impossible! )④我去=YuckIn this situation,“我去”means “reluctant ”or “speechless ”,etc.eg. -今天轮到你打扫卫生了。(It is your turn to clean up today. )-我去。我还要很多其他的事情要做呢！(Yuck. I have many other things to do! )English and Chinese are two different languages though, they also have same points . Reading more will help you to understand Chinese more deeply.I hope this answer will help you ~
The original meaning is “I will go for it”.Because of the development of internet, the young ages use this word as a totally different meaning. It is like the word “gee” or “what the hell”.
Just like “卧槽”,“我操”,“what the fuck” it is an oral impolite expression, used in many places. For example:you are surprised by something unbelievable, thrilling or disgusting.a saw,especially used by iron lady, 女汉子
I want to clarify two points before give my answer. Firstly, a bad government does not necessarily mean that the government wants to hurt its people intentionally, and vise versa. So I would regard what the government had done as bad if its consequences hurt people no matter what the intention is. Secondly, all Chinese leaders in modern Chinese history do have the same dream of “making China great again (MCGA)” based on their traditional education that the Chinese culture used to be the greatest and an educated Chinese is dutiful to work for China, and this MCGA is of course mixed with different personal world views and ambitions. So I’ll try to answer the question with a brief analysis to begin with on why and how things of China happened to be this way with a reminder now and then on what a thinking might have been involved.Modern day Chinese government started in 1911 after the Uprising of October 10, 1911. Five national flags had changed in Mainland China since as showing below. With each flag change there was a major social change behind, but all changes were somehow connected to MCGA based on Chinese thinking. I’ll make my case with a chronological account of the major events along with flag changes.Flag A （1889–1911）: Qing dynasty (1644–1912), an empire that had a territory three times of the precedent Ming Dynasty, was a creation of Manchus who came from the north of the Great Wall and conquered Ming Dynasty of Han Chinese in 1644 (figure below, left) without using a national flag officially until 1889 since national flag was a western concept. Under constant pressure from both inside and outside, the empire, as a fully recognized sovereignty by the West and having had numerous conflicts with European powers, finally sent official delegates in 1905 to Europe and America to check the Western world out and announced its plan to transform the Dynasty to constitutional monarchy in 1906 as a result. The dynasty published The Outline of Imperial Constitution three years later. But the reform fell short and the dynasty was ended after another three years after its announcement of the Constitution outline. The ruling people simply didn’t have the way of thinking to figure out what was truly wrong with their system and how to save the decaying dynasty.Flag B （1911.10–1912.1）: The 1911 Revolution to overthrow Qing broke off on October 10, and a stratocracy was established next day in WuChang. It has been acknowledged as the beginning of Republic of China (ROC), and their national flag, the first one for ROC, was this “18 ball-star” flag (also the picture above, right), a reflection of the revolutionaries’ ideal of reinstating Han people’s rule of the 18 provinces, the territory of Ming Dynasty. Specifically their ideal was “ to expel the Tatar barbarians (驱逐鞑虏), to Revive Chinese Society (Zhonghua) (恢复中华)”. Zhonghua meant the Han dynasty both culturally and territorially at that time and was formally proposed in 1895 by the revolutionaries .Flag C (1912–1928): The 1911 Revolution was an unexpected easy win for the revolutionaries. Within seven weeks following the uprising 15 out of the 18 provinces, the territory of Ming Dynasty, announced independence from Qing. The 13th Dalai Lama, who was in exile in India after Qing emperor stripped his title resulting from a dispute, also announced Tibet independence from Qing after the Uprising. He came back next year (or in 1913) and made an announcement of Tibet independence again; and Mongolians announced independence on 12/28, 1911 as well. However, among the revolutionaries those who wanted to inherit Qing dynasty won the debate over those who only wanted to “revive Zhonghua”. On the first day of 1912, ROC was formally announced to have been established and the flag was changed to this “five-colored”, representing a republic of five peoples: Hans, Manchus, Mongols, Tibetans, and Muslims (Hui 回). Han people, who used to overthrew the huge Mongol-ruled Yuan Dynasty and revived Han dynasty of Ming by expelling Mongols out of their proper, now were no longer following their ancestors to revive Han dynasty by expelling Manchus out China proper. Rather, they inherited this huge Manchu dynasty entirely without putting up much fight. The flag showed their ambition. They believed that they would build a new republic to make the MCGA dream come true. However, counting for 95% of the total population, they never seriously consulted with other non-Han leaders of the four big minorities about the ruling of this new republic yet still an inherited empire, and most of them still believed that those minorities were barbarians. ROC consequently denied both Tibetan and Mongolian independence claims by including both areas in its Provisional Constitution of the Republic of China launched in March, 1912.It was a turning point for the history of Han Chinese, for they had to think for the first time about everything not only happening in their proper but in the areas as twice large as their proper inhabited with only other minorities who didn’t speak/write Han language/characters, nor worship Confucius but their own gods, and their economy was based not on tilling but grazing. Manchu emperors ruled Han people thru adapting Han culture and other non-Han people thru Tribute System, in which the emperor’s power quickly waned with the increase of distance between him and his subjects which in effect allowed self ruling. Although ROC’s sovereignty over Tibet and Mongolia was internationally recognized, still, in 1924 came the first blow to ROC: Mongolian People's Republic was declared to be independent with Soviet Russia’s support that was first rejected by ROC but finally warranted twenty years later through a treaty between MPR and Soviet Russia in 1945. The treaty also permanently separated outer Mongolia from inner Mongolia allowing the latter stay within ROC. In 1946 ROC formally accepted MPR, the size of ROC was down by about 15% in Han people’s eyes.Flag D (1915.12.15–1916.03.22): A short but very important time for only about 100 days. Key words for this 100 days: ROC was put in constitutional crisis within three months by one of her founders after its birth and the republic empire failed in her beginning.After the Uprising of October 1911, the forced-out military strongman Yuan Shi-kai was called back to rescue Qing empire and became the number one man being the Premier. His troops made the rebellions----the ROC union of the independent provinces----under check, and both sides started to make deal under British mediation. Both agreed to let the Qing go and to start a Han ruling empire, and Yuan would be the president because he was the only one able to hold up the stake. In December 1911 Sun Yat-sen, the leader of anti-Qing Han revolutionaries but not the actual leader of 1911 Revolution came to China from his exile. Sun let his followers elect him provisional president on Dec. 29, 1911. It annoyed Yuan obviously, and even New York Times was surprised in its report of Dec. 31, 1911: “Dr. Sun's election, occurring simultaneously with the peace delegates agreeing to refer the form of government to the convention, indicates a lack of harmony among the republicans, which partly stultifies the work of Dr. Wu Ting-Fang and apparently violates the understanding with Yuan Shi-Kai.” (Wu was the first British educated Chinese Barrister grown up in Qing dynasty.)Yuan immediately pulled his representative out of the talk. It apparently pressed Sun to publically announce on Jan. 21 and 22, 1912, that he was only doing the job for the time being and would step down to let Yuan be the president as soon as the Qing Emperor had abdicated. The talk was resumed and both sides agreed to peacefully transfer to republic with Yuan promising to persuade Qing to surrender the ruling power. The Empress Dowager Longyu announced Abdication on behalf of the last Emperor to yield ruling power to Han people on Feb. 12, 1912. The outgoing Empress surely in fear of being mistreated made it clear in this fewer than 400-character Abdication that the power was going to the Han representative, her Premier Yuan Shikai, to organize a new republic government.However, Sun controlled Nanjing congress made the Provisional Constitution on March 8 and approved and announced by the stepping down Sun on March 11, the same day Yuan augmented as the president. As the historian Tong Tekong describes, “This Provisional Constitution, which has deeply influenced the modern history of China, …(has) changed the format of government from American Presidency to French Parliament. Its provision of presidency makes the premier directly report to the congress not the president, and, thus, the president becomes only a state symbol. Sun announces it on March 11, 1912……This design is obviously created to restrain Yuan. He is not going to have the power like Sun did.” (My translation of quote from 《袁氏治国》by Tong Tekong, 2004)The ROC inevitably fell into constitutional crisis immediately as a new republic empire that desperately needed a strong government to make the transfer from a Confucian faith-state tyranny to a rule-of-law republic while Yuan's hands were tied up. Without Yuan’s leadership, all local strongmen thought that this republic was a joke, or a game for power. ROC lost its critical first two years to set its footing. The entire politics was a circus to the people simply showing that democratic freedom as a brand new ideal was a chaos but nothing else. This experience and understanding of democracy has continued in many Chinese minds to this day.After a chaotic period for a little more than three and half a year since his presidency, Yuan, advised by his advisers, the renowned American legal scholar Frank Johnson Goodnow (…known for his assertion that the Chinese people were not mature enough for a democratic form of government—a position that was later utilized by Yuan, as he attempted to proclaim himself the Emperor of China in 1915-6.), and his Japanese adviser Aruga Nagao (有贺长雄, the first Japanese Nobel prize nominee), had a showdown with Sun’s party and decided to reform the republic empire. In December, 1915, Yuan announced his reform—-to change the system to constitutional monarchy with the name Empire of China with regnal year Hongxian (洪宪), meaning “grand constitutional”. But it was beyond the understanding of ordinary Chinese who never heard anything in such that an emperor would be living and ruling under constitution. They just wanted not to see another emperor crown on any of their new rulers, regardless. ——A lesson definitely learned by all later Chinese leaders whoever ruled China ever since: Never bear emperor title to rule no matter what the reality is.Yuan publicly withdrew his plan and apologized to his people 100 days later. He died on the 6th day of June, 1916, after failing to bring the system under control, only bearing a name of “arch-usurper of state power” recorded in history books still taught in today’s China. Sun continued to fight for power to modernize China under him by starting “third revolution” .Flag E (1928–1949 in Mainland; –present in Taiwan): Sun started a new party, Chinese Revolutionary Party (CRP), the pre-KMT. He asked party members to be absolutely loyal to him, even claimed, “ …without me any pursuit of republic or democracy has to end in its opposite side. I must ask every comrade to obey me for I’m pursuing the revolution (for the nation). You would be deadly wrong as soon as you doubted about your obedience. You people simply have so limited knowledge and experience, so you go nowhere except following me without asking any questions.” (My translation of quote from A Memoir of the Era of Chinese Revolutionary Party 1989《中华革命党时代的回忆》by Ju Zheng.) Sun’s CRP transformed to KMT in 1919, two years before Chinese Communist Party was created.In 1923 KMT under Sun received financial and military aid from Soviet Union after Sun had repeatedly failed to find aids from western countries and Japan. KMT held its first Nationalist Congress in 1924, claiming to represent all political classes in its struggle for the unification of China. KMT reorganized to adopt key organizational features of the Soviet communist party. Sun allowed CCP members to join KMT and increasingly used ideology as a means to centralize the power of KMT. It’s Sun who started following the Soviets to set Anti-Imperialism as the primary goal of Chinese revolution, and he was the one who first used the term Unequal Treaties to prove the Chinese humiliation by International Imperialism. His student and successor Chiang Kai-shek reunified China in 1928 by defeating all the “running dogs of Imperialism,” the local warlords. He changed Sun’s policy of collaboration with CCP and crackdowned CCP in 1927. He now became another “running dog of imperialism” called by CCP, a party more revolutionarily radical, but his teacher Sun has been regarded as the Founding Father of Modern China by both parties.Chiang’s fight against CCP was doomed after Sino-Japanese war broke off in 1937. As the historian Anthony James Joes puts, “The Japaneses war devastated the Nationalists forces, revived the Communist party, and thus changed the history of the world.” (Resisting Rebellion: The History and Politics of Counterinsurgency, 2006) But Chiang insisted following Sun’s ideology. At the end of WWII, seeing the dawn of Japanese defeat, Chiang Kai-Shek published his China’s Destiny and brought up the Unequal Treaties magic again to fuel up nationalism to support his rule but ignored internal reforms. The corrupted KMT rule ended in 1949 after a three year long bloody civil war between KMT and CCP.During Chiang’s rule Xinjiang Muslims rebelled in 1933 (First East Turkestan Republic). Ten years later, Muslims, encouraged and organized by the Soviet Union, rebelled at Ili. It lasted to 1949 and the rebellions turned to CCP for support against Nationalists. Second East Turkestan Republic was short lived during the rebellion but its influence continued to this day among Xinjiang Muslims.Flag F (1949-present, in Mainland): After PRC was created in 1949, the Nationalist State system was replaced with Communist State system in Mainland China. CCP’s rule of China during Mao era was Stalinist style plus Mao’s destructive thinking in the construction of PRC. By the time of Mao’s death the GDP of PRC was less than 5% of the world’s against its 22% world population, which made per capita GDP of China at a level of a little more than a fifth of the world’s. (table below, Loren Brandt et al, 2014)Led by Mao China joined USSR bloc and fought against America in N. Korea and Viet Nam, had border conflicts with India and USSR, and was in war with Viet Nam after Mao’s death. Conflicts between Han ruling and Tibet and Xinjiang minorities have remained as the main concerns of the government from time to time, including Dalai Lama’s escape to India in 1959.China’s industrialization before Reform was a copy of Soviet model. Over one hundred thirty Key Projects mostly of heavy industry were most completed aided by Soviets. China also developed nuke bombs and launched satellite while having an undeveloped economy. A great famine broke up at the end of 1950s thru the beginning two years of 1960s that perished millions of lives. Mao started Cultural Revolution in 1966 to continue his pursuit of MCGA mixed with his Marxism and never had China’s social norms reinstalled until his death in 1976.After Mao’s death Economic Reform started in late 1970s internally and extended externally in early 1980s. China reopened to the world and the reform eventually led to the abandonment of communism practice in PRC but the country did not change its flag for the first time in past 100 years after a major social transformation. China had made her first remarkable social change essentially peacefully for ten years until Tiananmen Square protests of 1989. But the country didn’t stop its economic reform and its per capita GDP has grown from ~20% to 116% of the world average, ranking at ~80th in 2014. Chinese economy now is the second largest after pooling in all of its 20% world population.To summarize, I would draw some factual conclusions based on this very brief review of China’s past 100 years:1. There have been many Chinese leaders who all wanted to live up to this MCGA in past 100 years with personal marks. Sun, a typical example as widely revered and as reviled, gave MCGA a personal interpretation for all Chinese and moved forward with measures undermined the first Chinese republic. Deng, who was one of many Mao’s students and comrades, reopened China which led to the great success of Chinese economic development but the abandonment of communism unintentionally. Today’s China is at her apex in Chinese history although its per capita GDP is still behind many countries. Never before there were so many Chinese who could enjoy a quality life like now. China’s new leader now is apparently taking MCGA personal again. So China’s future will largely determined by his own MCGA interpretation.2. Modern China is an inheritance of Qing Empire although the ruling people Han are not the conquerors. However, after Han’s ruling became no more a Tribute System, PRC itself has been bearing characteristics of imperialism. During Mao era this characteristics had been managed thru “class struggle” but evolved to a conflict between Han and other major minorities after “class struggle” was discarded. The fundamental cultural differences between Han and other minorities have not been diminished thru 100 year long Han ruling, and Han people’s MCGA hasn’t been transformed to becoming other minorities’ dream which is clearly shown in China’s social and economic development that mostly is in the region of southeastern but not in northwestern China.3. The MCGA dream is rooted in traditional thinking but has not evolved along with China’s industrialization to a Chinese Modernity. The theory of Sun has helped Han Chinese keep China united but also created nationalism that blamed China’s misery on the Western capitalism and led China to choosing Russian Leninism. Its practice in China caused Chinese people tens millions of lives and put Chinese economic development on hold for 27 years.4. The failure of China’s early republic experiment has been imposing a huge negative impact on Chinese people’s view of democracy and keeping haunting them, which in combination with China’s imperialist characteristics has been strangling China to an emotional tangle. Restrained by the way of Chinese thinking together with decades long twisted education, it becomes a somewhat popular Chinese view that there are always hostile forces out there who only want to destroy China. This ghost can come out to play at government’s will to shift the attention of the public to Chinese problems.5. China’s economic development in past 35 years is a great achievement. This achievement has made the MCGA dream never so close to come true. It’s no question that the achievement is attributed to the work of Chinese people. However, it is to a large extent misinterpreted in ignoring the fact that it is a part of the modernization of entire human civilization. To over emphasize this great achievement as the inevitable renaissance of ancient Chinese civilization creates a blind pride blocking people from seeing what human Modernity is really about and from recognizing the problems with Chinese culture. It will only slow down the development of critical thinking and consequently make it more difficult to find solutions to existing historic Chinese issues.Finally, What makes Chinese government a bad government? I believe, that the leaders of Chinese government keep thinking in a traditional way in their effort to make MCGA come true often becomes what makes Chinese government a bad government as shown in modern Chinese history. China has never been so strong and resourceful but the traditional thinking cannot evolve with the fast progress of Chinese society and the world modernization. China’s government is ruling her with great fear in my view which is inherited from the history and enforced thru self victimized education to Chinese people. The 1.4 billion Chinese people should not only be the labors of the world factory but also part of the brain pool of entire human race, including the non-Han Chinese, to think freely. It won’t happen until Chinese leaders are free from traditional way of thinking.*Edit: After seeing it viewed by over 3k times I decided to come to correct some errors and comment on my claim in the last sentence. Obviously it is rhetorical if every Chinese leader only comes from Chinese people. Therefore, I think that we can only say that the ruling of Chinese government will change with time when people make changes with their thinking. I know that I might be wrong. So I truly welcome critics and appreciate different thoughts.**Edit: I made correction on Chinese GDP calculations. Now I would like to add my perspective on the MCGA as to what it really means in order to clarify questions by the reader related to it. Probably nobody knows exactly what the contents of MCGA are because it is basically a subjective wishful thinking that was initially based on “Chinese Humiliation” . The humiliation was real, yet the question was who to blame on for the misery. Through late Qing dynasty and early ROC years Chinese elites commonly believed that the Chinese culture itself was the root cause of the problem and the culture needed to be modernized. The thinking was changed after Sun Yat-sen turned to Soviet Russia for help and formally announced in Sun–Joffe Manifesto at the beginning of 1923. Sun since modified his Three Principles of the People in which his first principle Nationalism (MinZu 民族) was no longer “to expel the Tatar barbarians (驱逐鞑虏), to Revive Chinese Society (Zhonghua) (恢复中华)”, but to unify China and maintain its independency through the course of Anti-Imperialism. Obviously it fitted the the new ROC, an inherited Qing empire, by attributing all Chinese problems to Western powers’ bullying. Chinese culture itself was spared but a victim of Western invasion. After the showdown between the more radical revolutionary CCP and KMT, Confucianism was replaced by Communism in Mainland after KMT was eventually defeated. Thirty years later after communist practice failed in PRC it logically led to the belief that communism must be the problem. Now, after achieving its great economic development, China is returning to the point to catch the culprit again. The answer is obvious if Sun’s theory still holds up to Chinese leaders. Or else, if their way of thinking has changed because Sun’s theory can’t hold up any more when being scrutinized differently.
A lot of answers here suggest that it's very hard to define a good/bad government, but I would say it's surprisingly simple.Historically, China’s government should take care of its people, and the emperor should be kind but decisive, leading his people to make the proper decision under tough circumstances. Sounds pretty much like every government should do, right? The most significant difference between China's good government and the West’s is that China's government doesn't work on (capitalist) social contract. The emperor works more like a family member of his citizens.Nowadays, different people have different values for judging if the government is good or not. Based on corruption, regulation and many other reasons, liberals believe China should adopt the Western political system as soon as possible. Meanwhile, conservatives believe the country should stay as it is for a while and see if this system and its evolved version can still work in the future. After all it has been working well in the past few decades.Liberals may tell you that China's current government is bad, but conservatives may tell you that it is actually pretty good. It all depends on who you're with.This is a pretty good thing. Plurality, if carefully managed, can keep people mentally agile. Luckily, China doesn't have some kind of political correctness or universal political standard yet, prompting the country to carefully think more about the future of itself.
Considering the large population, the current government definitely did a great job there.By the way, this question itself is not referenced to a sufficiently correct fact. That indicates some mystery motivations, and to some extents, this question just simply twist China government being bad, which is an infringement of first rule of quora. Please reformat this one, cheers.
I think the question is not a proper one.Since the one who asked the question has already had a preconceived idea that Chinese government is a bad government,and he just turned to quora to find someone who can support his idea with some clues to make himself convinced that he is right.Whether Chinese government is a bad government is a question without answer.Actually it's not proper to evaluate a government with a word such as good or bad.Maybeit's no a big problem to comment on its behaviors with such words.we can say that the Chinese government did a unpleasant job before 1980s,it made many mistakes and didn't make the country coming to a prosperous future in the right direction.Though,it did make some contribution to the country’s development,it should have done more.After that period,china has gone such a long way to a bright future and is still on the way to be better.Compared with governments of other countrys in the near twenty years,what the Chinese government has done is good enough.Whether the Chinese government will continue doing a good job in the future is unknown.Lets watch for the next decade.
Disregarding the semantics about democracy, freedom of speech, rules of law, etc, etc, there’s one fundamental difference between Chinese government and the more ‘enlightened’ western democratic government, and this difference is what makes the Chinese government ‘bad’.The Chinese government can make an individual utterly and completely powerless.Imagine you are a disgruntled individual that was wronged by the government/institutions, and you are out to seek justice. You will find the mission near impossible in China. The various governmental bodies ensure individual odd-balls of the society are isolated, silenced and forgotten. This has been so for thousands of years across hundreds of dynasties. This is the price the ruling class of China has to and willing to pay, because the Chinese ruling class values stability and harmony above all else, and the Chinese culture is all about collectivism vs. individualism.When you are a law-abiding citizen working along side the government, you will find all your needs met, grievances addressed and opinions heard. But as soon as you veer off from this path, you will find yourself enclosed, trapped, muted and forgotten.Now in comparison, if you were a wronged individual in a more ‘enlightened’ western democratic society, you can always find ways to be heard, and there’s always someone willing to listen. There’s plenty state and private watchdogs, ombudsmen, overseers to voice your disagreement to and plenty of lawyers you can employ. If all else fails, there’s privately owned media you can go to as well.In other words, it is a terrible terrible business to be the odd one out in China, not so much in a western democratic country.There’s a reason why overwhelming number of Chinese Quorans are in praise of Chinese government, it’s because those are the ones being fulfilled, they are content and they are what the government is working for and working with.Majority of Chinese willingly choose to forgo the assurance that one day they might fall short of the government’s good graces and get stuck in the rut, because they want tangible benefits here and now. Whereas for an average westerner, he/she is NOT willing to forgo that assurance because who knows one day they might need it.In a twisted way, Chinese government is probably the most democratic of them all, because it gives what most people want, not what the few needs.
Why is suppression of ‘Free speech’ by the Chinese government so acceptable to the Chinese people?Opinions about CCP in Quora seem to suggest that Chinese people are quite content with CCP. Now, I am not arguing for democracy or against the Chinese system, but I cannot understand how can anyone find being disallowed the right to express opinion or protest against politicians acceptable?The best defense for Free Speech in China is to Always Speak the Truth. If you are insulted by the Chinese government, publicize it on the web and you’ll get every citizen behind you.But the Chinese are not OK to be lied to. Not by the Chinese Government, not by other Chinese people, not by any foreign Government or foreigners. And not by you. You may call that ‘Free Speech’. The Chinese call it lies, and demand their government to shut you up.The Chinese are also not OK to be grossly insulted.In 2008, China suffered a magnitude 7.9 earthquake in her western mountainous region. Close to 90,000 people died. Mothers desperately tried to shield their children with their own bodies, and died entombed together. The mother was still tenderly holding her child.Sharon Stone, dressed in all her sparkles and finery, stood on the red carpet of Cannes, called it ‘karma’. China angry over Sharon Stone quake karma remarkHundreds of millions of Chinese demanded the Chinese government to ban her films and any merchandise associated with her. If this is what ‘Free Speech’ means, the Chinese don’t want it.You want to know why the Chinese not only support the Chinese government’s censorship, but demand it? Because it’s so obvious, OBVIOUS, that the likes of Sharon Stone are not on their side. You have someone literally laughing when 90,000 Chinese died in an earthquake, and then coming up with crocodile tears about ‘oh we have to fight for the poor Chinese who don’t have free speech’. The Chinese government, on the other hand, quickly mobilized 130,000 soldiers and other relief workers to attempt rescue, of which, around 200 rescuers died from ensuing aftershocks and mudslides. They gave their lives for the Chinese people.Sichuan earthquake of 2008 | ChinaWhen you call hate speech ‘free speech’, you make people hate free speech.PS: This is not an isolated event. This kind of sh*t happens continuously, and not just towards Chinese, but a continuous stream of random insult to almost any foreign country. Even the Swedes, the mellowest of all, are threatening to “go full fascist on them Yanks and ban them all”. King of Sweden stresses need for ‘serious’ media and source checking after Donald Trump’s immigration claims
Chinese people aren't OK with the censorship. People make fun of the “keyword” censorship all the time, mocking the key words with stupid alternatives. People comment on how their social media posts were removed. If someone spoke up against the government and was threatened, people will show support by reposting screenshots of their deleted words (which are harder to regulate).Just because people don't give up their life and throw themselves into some bloody resistance movement, doesn't mean they accept bad government policies.But western media doesn't report this. Chinese people making fun of their government doesn't make nearly as appealing a click-bait headline as “Chinese people intentionally kill car accident victims”.Think of it in this way: you have a life, you have a family, you have a future. And the government removes a post from your Facebook. Would you throw away everything you have to fight against the government? Even if you want to, how are you going to go about doing it? Where will you find this “underground rebel force"? Is it worth it? To give up your life, family and future, a stable job and relatively pleasant life because of one removed Facebook comment?If you won’t do it, why do you think Chinese people should do it? Because of some idealistic bullshit idea that the Chinese government is evil and there should be a bloody revolution? Why don't Chinese stand up against oppression? Why don't Russians stand up against oppression? Why don't other people stand up against oppression because you think standing up against oppression is romantic?You don't know about China. Most westerners don't, and most westerners have this rosy idea about what revolution is… hence questions like this.
Why do educated Chinese support the CCP?Because actual educated Chinese know that the CCP was single handedly responsible for turning a dirt poor backwater nation into a mighty economic superpower lifting 600 Million people out of poverty within a span of 3 decades. Without the CCP, China would have been a weak, fragmented nation.These educated people also know that the West’s criticism of China’s human rights some part cultural imperialism and some part a ploy to weaken and destabilize China. A weak fragmented China unable to challenge Western value hegemony, is ultimately in the West’s interests.The second part of your question asserts that the Chinese cannot criticize their politicians. That is a flagarant lie. Fact of the matter is, Chinese do vehemently complain about corruption and criticize policies. The only time the CCP forbids speech is when it may lead to instigation to riot, protest and destabilize any part of the nation. “Democracy, human rights” should never be a cover for destabilizing a nation, fragmenting it and making it poor.
Why do educated Chinese support CCP despite not having the freedom to criticize Chinese politicians?On August 28th, 2016, I received the following text message from the Chinese Government:党和政府庄严承诺：不让一个学生因家庭经济困难而失学！从学前儿童到研究生，都能享受国家资助政策。详情查询全国学生资助管理中心网站。【教育部宣、工信部、中国移动】The Party and the Government solemnly promise: we will not allow a single student to drop out of school because of economic reasons. From preschool to graduate school, everyone can enjoy state funds to pay for his/her education. For more details, visit National Student Financial Aids Administration website [message by Department of Education, Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, China Mobile]The CPC is promising to give education to everyone who wants it. If they pull this off, we are talking about personal empowerment through education at every level of the society. The day that everyone in China who want a decent education can get one, I will convert to the CPC's biggest fan ever.Of course, there is always a catch to any rosy promises made by politicians. I actually tried to visit the website to take a look, but the website is an epic fail. It couldn’t handle all the traffic going to the site. So, a poor student can't really visit the site for more information.A few months later, I had a conversation about this text message with a friend who works for PwC US in China. He studied Computer Science at Tongji University, one of China's best, and he came from a humble background. He was on state money all his way through college. It paid for his tuition, but he had to eat, and that's not part of the no-one-drops-out deal. Luckily, university canteens are heavily subsidized by the Chinese Government. My friend was able to support himself working part-time in the summer loading bricks at a Shanghai construction site.So, I wondered, if the website for state funds doesn't work, how the heck did he receive his money for tuition. It turns out, the Chinese Government relies on schools, and local government officials to nominate state fund recipients. Given low technology literacy across China, I guess having a functioning website wouldn't make much a difference, but it still would be nice to have a place for information online.I can't speak for 1.4 billion of my fellow Chinese compatriots, but I am not as antiestablishment as I used to be because I think China is heading toward the right direction, and marginal improvements to the system are what we need, certainly not that democratic revolution crap.On a side note, it bugs me that we have a GFW, but hey I know a thing or two about Linux command line. The CPC can’t stop me from using Shadowsocks to watch Marcus Butler doing an American accent on YouTube.I hope my reflection on the topic sort of answers your question.
On one hand, the question itself is unwarranted, Chinese people do have the freedom to criticize the government which is already explained in other comments.One the other hand, even though Chinese people don’t have this so-called free speech, why can’t they still support the government any way? What I want to say is the FREE SPEECH is just not that important, nobody is living on criticizing the government, people enjoy their own lives and who cares that much about what the hell the government is doing. Chinese people see that their lives are getting better and better, the funtamental constrution is doing well, they recieve better education and become richer day by day. These are the things people really care about.And in fact, in many parts of the western world, the free speech is superficial, is fake and useless. Ok, you can say whatever you want, but you are a fool and never count on that I will listen to you. In this sense, the free speech is like satisfaction to yourself.And, there is no real free speech in western world if you criticize people of different color of skin, different religous belives, and what if there are really some big problems in them? You can’t even say that out and never mention even solve them.What does the free speech really mean to you?And if this comment is deleted some time later, it will be a solid evidence that the western free speech is so lame.
We as human beings are generally drawn to things that are different from us. I think China is one of the countries least touched by the wave of globalization. They still have thousands of years of traditions that they hold onto so very dearly.The Food – The Chinese does everything differently. Their foods usually lack spice (which is taken separately if needed most of the time) in order to retain the flavor of the actual meat. But having said that I have had beef that was spicier than a Colombian dish. The variations of Chinese food are endless. Don’t be misled by the Chinese Restaurants in your country because that is definitely no match for what you will get in Mainland China.The People – The Chinese are known for their hard-work, efficiency and productivity. But that’s just the tip of the iceberg. They are the nicest and most helpful people I have seen in all my travel destinations. I was once on my way to meet someone I worked with in China and my transit got delayed by two hours. She closed the shop because I was too late, but stayed back for me to come by. Much to my surprise, I found her standing on the side of the road near the office waiting patiently. It took a long time to get through everything I needed to discuss with her. And alas, it was 1:30 in the morning when we finished up. That wasn’t the end. She invited me to have dinner with her and we all sat down, talking about how different China is from the rest of the world. With the transit back to her place and everything she would have gotten roughly an hour or two of sleep before work the next day. I don’t know how many qualities I have just talked about but all of them remarkably exceptional.The Places – Chinese Architecture is something different to what you will see in most places. Usually in the non-business centers of China. Henan Province comes to mind. The amount of ancient architecture that you will see there at any given point in time is mind boggling. China is also home to thousands of museums, each of them consisting of significant counterparts that make up for the entire lifeline of China.Diversity – I was once like most people who have never been to China. I thought that everything in China is interchangeable. But I was amazed by how much diversity I got from one city to the next. It was quite baffling how the lifestyle and the aesthetics change. In comparison the only place I could think of right now is Turkey.But all in all you just have to get there and see for yourself. I can write more, but it would not do justice to how beautiful China truly is. I hope everyone sees it that way.Passion Project - Planetgraphy | Facebook (Just for Travel Inspiration)
They are many reasons foreigners move to China. Many for its rich exotic ancient culture, many for its eccentric diversity among the country. Hospitality, tremendous amount of opportunities and the list can continue. But I will share my fair share.Population - China is 1.357 Billion yet it manages to keep its stability among its citizens. That’s a pure work of Art. It feeds its people, it promotes education, it invests in its people’s future and I think the government here is doing a fantastic job of keeping the country together.Fastest growing economy - The country was illiterate, poor and backward compared to the rest of the world up until a few decades ago, but that changed and it's changing so fast. It’s simply fascinating.Moral values - China is a collective culture, where family values, community, and everyone matters. They work hard for ultimate one goal to make the country better for the future generation. I have never seen such people so passionate and devoted to their country in the 21st century. The Chinese traditional cultural values of harmony, benevolence, righteousness,courtesy, wisdom, honesty, and loyalty.Life experience - My everyday work is a life lesson, a challenge, a new experience and a new beginning. People appreciate my hard work here as a foreigner. They do not take my work for granted and they actually appreciate for what I do for them.Entertainment - China offers the unlimitted amount of entertainment, leisure and numerous different activities for having fun. The nightclubs here are giants stadiums with IMAX 3D screen, they have things like escape rooms, unbelievable theme parks, outdoor natural parks and much more.Affordable high-quality life - If you’re professional expat, life in China can be rewarding. The economy is booming and they are a lot of opportunities available. There’s a high demand for educated professionals who are willing to step out of their comfort zone.People - Unconditional kindness, integration of the locals with foreigners, tolerance and acceptance and cheap travel within the country and Asia with high-speed train or affordable airfare are all many reasons why expats choose to live here.\If you’re serious about your career and would like to make an impact in the world. I believe China is a great destination. I am learning so many new things here, basically, you have the freedom in China to innovate, be articulate and design new ways of doing things.I love China 我爱中国
I have an answer for this that some you find ironic:The Freedom they Experience in ChinaOf course, life as an American (or European, etc) expat in China is different from the lives of native Chinese people in many ways.The life of a foreigner in China may feel more “free” due to the fact that expats don’t have family responsibilities here. A Chinese student in the USA may feel freedoms in North America that aren’t possible in China.I am a Mandarin Chinese teacher of both children and adults and many of my students are moving to China from the USA. Many of them mention that they feel more “freedom” in China than they do in the USA, despite their worries that it would be the opposite.The three freedoms that I most often hear about from foreigners in China are:Having the “freedom” to not own a car and to be able to get around on public transport. I have lived and traveled in the USA and I know that, while a car is meant to provide personal “freedoms”, we are often limited by our cars: stuck in traffic, financial burden, and cities in which walking or taking the train is not an option.Shanghai’s subways was began just 20 years ago and it’s already the largest in the world:The “freedom” of walking anywhere at any hour and not fearing for your safety. Aside from some crime such as pickpocketing, violent crime in China is minimal and especially not aimed at foreigners.Chinese cities are walkable and worry-free 24/7:The “freedom” of buying alcohol at any hour and to drink it on the street. This is something that Americans enjoy more than Chinese! In the USA there are many rules with alcohol and cigarettes- when/where you can buy and use them. In China, you can have an informal BBQ with beer out on the sidewalk without worry! While most of my students don’t smoke, the few that do seem to greatly enjoy doing it indoors at bars and restaurants.In Qingdao, you can buy “street beer” to go by weight in a plastic bag:For Chinese people, many of us want cars, don’t appreciate how safe the streets are, and would never think of drinking beer in public if not at a restaurant. However, these three points are quite refreshing if you’re coming from North America!Many of my foreign students feel that when they go back home, there are more small laws and responsibilities that don’t apply to their lives when they were here in China.Ironic, isn’t it?
I've lived for substantial time in 3 Asian cities (Singapore, Hong Kong, and Shenzhen), and they all surprised me on the upside. In the case of China, here's why I like it:it's modern, and continues to develop all the time. They have modern cities, excellent transport infrastructure (highways, airports, high-speed trains network which is unmatched in the world, excellent public transport and taxis), excellent hotels, malls, restaurants and cafes, beautiful parks, etc.There’s a feeling of safety and freedom in Chinese cities, which impress with their size. There’s no one to tell you what to do, and you can see from the behavior of the diverse crowd, people just do what they want. In most places you won't see any police. In some others they are present in security posts. They just do their job, i.e. sit there silently and behave reasonably, adding to the security and order. Do you know that police in China doesn't have firearms? They are just like a part of the crowd, only doing their job.friendliness of Chinese people. You will always get help, no matter that you can't speak a word in Chinese besides 你好, or they can't speak English. They'll spend their time and go out of their way to explain you how to get somewhere, or how to buy a train ticket, they'll patiently and enthusiastically explain how to get what you need. They'll be positive and practical all the time while helping you.they are non-dogmatic. The people are simply pragmatic and hardworking, they want to live good lives, and feel responsible for their well-being. They are not brainwashed (something which is actually more typical to Western countries, and you can see it on Quora too). The main philosophy of China is just common sense and being a good person.business is in the genes of Chinese. Small shops and restaurants are ubiquitous, which makes me think self employment and small business must be a major kind of employment. The government creates excellent business infrastructure. For example, the hi tech city area in Shenzhen is very impressive and has lots of spaces to support innovations and startups. China hosts some of world’s biggest trade shows and exhibitions. It’s easy to see trends in the world economy here.they are connected and communal. It’s easy to talk with people and make friends, especially if you are open and respectful.technologically, China is of course advanced in many ways. For example, electric transport has been very developed here for years. You can find electric bikes, personal transportation vehicles (like kick scooters or mono wheels), electric taxis and cars, even electric buses (the photo below is a bus charging station).some things are convenient. The Chinese messenger app (WeChat) is very advanced and makes it easy to make payments and much more; it’s a technology marvel. For example, in some cafes you can scan QR code on your table, which brings up the menu on your phone; you can make an order and it will be sent to your table. You can pay with your mobile phone almost everywhere, you don’t need cash or credit card. It’s fine to leave your wallet at home if you have a phone with you.still kept (and in some cases even exaggerated) some of its sweet traditions. Well, their language itself is ancient to begin with. In the very developed Chinese cities you'll see many people still trying to live simple ways. Outdoor tai chi, dragon boat festivals, traditional medicine, etc., add charm to the urban culture.it’s vast and intellectually stimulating. It’s very geographically diverse, has rich history, and Chinese are passionate about learning and self development, they’re smart and focused. I love book shops here and book cafes; Shenzhen’s central book store claims to be the largest in the world.To give a more balanced answer, I'll mention a few negatives. They are not big, but are a part of life, too:air pollution in some cities and regions. People are used to it. Most of the time it’s not terribly bad, and unfortunately air is more or less polluted in most (if not all) cities of the world. I take break from cities and travel once in a while to other countries or areas in China (such as Yunnan, Hainan) where the air is clean.internet problems. Although the networks are fast, but due to traffic monitoring some sites are blocked (Google, popular social networks, and some news sites) or work slowly. This Internet control has not only political purpose, but it's good for the development of Chinese Internet companies.you shouldn't be lazy and start learning the language and culture. It is very worthy. Although you always get help and generally friendly attitude, you need to do your part and learn at least the basics of Mandarin. Unlike in HK, in the mainland little effort is made to translate anything into English (beyond road signs and metro announcements). It pays a lot to know at least common phrases and basics of characters writing (汉字). It is a lot of fun actually.Overall, China is fast pace, generally efficient, straightforward, but you need to get used to it and learn ways of doing things. They may be not what you are used to coming from another country.
Because, as Westerners, China is the macaroni to our cheese. The yin to our yang if you will.In the West, we tend to emphasize freedom, individualism, the state being the collective wills of the several individuals under it and nothing more. Big collective pushes for ‘the Greater Good’ take the back seat unless it’s really necessary.In China, they tend to emphasize stability, collectivism, the state being a parental body that knows what is good for you even if your short-sightedness tells you otherwise. Individual rights take the back seat unless the lack thereof start to threaten stability.While we keep fighting about which extreme of the continuum is better, in reality they are two halves of a whole.Westerners travel to China and marvel at the speed and practicality with which Chinese can build massive, ultra-modern cities (regardless whether a centuries-old temple was demolished to build it or not)Chinese travel to Europe and marvel at the protected buildings of historical/heritage value preserved perfectly (tough luck if you want to build a highway that will boost economic growth, try building around Ye Olde Tavern).Westerners travel to China and marvel at the safety and efficiency among the Chinese people as the economy powers forth and people’s standard of living increases without any major glitches.Chinese travel to the West and marvel at the creativity and innovation in Western society as with its decentralized, individualistic space for people to do things differentlyI love Western culture with its Socratic approach to problems and Enlightenment values deeply as much as I love Chinese culture with its Confucian values and strong history of science, progress and love of knowledge.The reason why I think China is great is because it clearly demonstrates the strengths of an alternative to Western statecraft - just as much as the West clearly demonstrates the strengths of an alternative to Chinese statecraft. This is how we and China can both reexamine our own established political ‘operating systems’ and improve them where we can.
I'll provide empirical evidence as to why it is important by firstly answering with another question.Why do Jews and the West care still about the Holocaust?More people died during the Nanking massacre than did during the two A-bombs in Japan, yet the A-bombs are much more covered in Japanese history, repeatedly, than the Nanking massacre by far (or all other Japanese war atrocities for that matter).The reason being? China and Japan are in disagreement of the severity of the atrocities as well as the number of dead (mostly since few records remain from the Japanese side largely due to the Japanese burning all evidence during the end of the war). Yet westerners that were there are the biggest sources of the atrocities.*I’ll update with more information time to time*** I did a bit more digging into how the Japanese administration goes on sidelining the issue and learned the method is both simple and well thought out. They simply shift the blame when one party to the issue is asked about it and what we get in return is a triangle of denial. When the government is asked, they blame the teachers; when the teachers are asked, they blame the Education Ministry; when the Education Ministry is asked, they blame the central government. This way, people don't really know what's really going on and who's lying or not because they'll believe whomever they trust most.***EDIT*(Japanese ‘loss’ of information on the matter has much to do with the US investigation of Japan's biological warfare department and subsequent cover up of the matter due to the American interest in the data and the higher ups wanting to keep the data away from the Soviets. Initially, the US Bio warfare corps sent legal experts to investigate war crimes but was stopped by scientists of the same division, though many who initially investigated were misled by Japanese translators who were actually former members of Unit 731, and it was in later inquiries that the Joint Chiefs of staff, notably General MacArthur, decided that the info provided by the Japanese scientists were valuable for the US and decided in a conference with other US department heads to withhold the information in top secret intelligence channels and not submit them to War Crimes programs.Source: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc...The reason why this info is relavent to the matter is simply that during investigations for Unit 731’s crimes, the Allies had no whitnesses who could testify, since documents were kept hidden or destroyed, compared to the Nuremberg trials where there were many witnesses who could testify. This is due to the fact that the Japanese military scientists left no survivors who could testify in part for Chinese lives lost. The only few relavent prosecutions that were carried out were only based on American POW accounts that Americans were tested on. Aside from that, it seems the lives of non-Americans didn't matter as much to the administration. In the case of Nanjing, if the Americans authorities pushed further on the matter then proper justice would have prevailed but they didn't, unlike in Europe. This is also a great source on the matter:https://www.archives.gov/files/i...There was ample evidence to prosecute but most came out to the public after the trials ended.*Unlike in Europe where one central repository of information and prosecutions took place, War crimes trials against the Japanese were conducted by America, the USSR, Republic of China, People’s Republic of China (after 1949), the Filipinos, the British, the Dutch, the French, and even the Portuguese (they had Chinese possessions, mainly Macau, and other colonies in the region) and Australians (Mostly having to do with those capture by the Australian and New Zealand armies) independently of each other. Thus, the American government saw no need to have a single repository of Japanese war crimes due to soviet involvement and didn't pursue them aggressively since they saw Japan as a gift of sorts to use as a buffer against Communism in the Far East. Though, it was America that had captured the wartime administration who were the most heinous criminals, yet they were let go due to ‘lack’ of evidence and the need for a strong Japan. Both the ROC and PRC tried Japanese War criminals in the hundreds. The soviets, however, did capture 6 members of Unit 731 when they entered Manchuria and put them on trial and later handed over hundreds of other Japanese war criminals to the PRC in 1949 for prosecution, but America brushed them off as being “propoganda” most of the time, even if they were legitimate prosecutions.“Although many notorious war criminals went unpunished and lived prosperous and prestigious lives, it is important to recognize that thousands of Japanese war crimes were prosecuted. Twenty-eight Class A war criminals accused of crimes against peace, conventional war crimes, and crimes against humanity included many of Japan’s wartime leaders, such as Prime Minister Gen. Tōjō Hideki. The Tokyo War Crimes Tribunal, the counterpart of Nuremberg, began in May 1946 and ended in November 1948 with the conviction of twenty-five of these defendants. Seven, including Tōjō, were hanged, sixteen were sentenced to life imprisonment (of whom four died in prison), and two received lesser terms. Of the three remaining, two died during the proceedings, and one was declared unfit for trial. The Japanese government paroled all those imprisoned by 1956 and the Foreign Ministry released them unconditionally in April 1958. Allied nations also held war crimes trials throughout Asia and the Pacific. Americans, British, Australians, Dutch, French, Filipinos, and Chinese held trials at forty-nine locations between October 1945 and April 1956. The British prosecuted numerous Japanese for war crimes in Southeast Asia, including those involved in the construction of the Thai- Burma railway of death, immortalized as the Bridge over the River Kwai. Australian prosecutors worked in conjunction with British and American courts to bring Japanese to justice and tried large numbers of Japanese at Amboina, Dutch East Indies, and at Rabaul, New Britain. China tried at least 800 defendants, including some involved in the Nanjing massacre. France and the Netherlands tried several hundred more. The French brought to justice a Japanese civilian on Java who forced dozens of women into prostitution for the military authorities, and the Dutch condemned Japanese to death for the murder of indigenous people and Dutch prisoners. In late 1949 at Khabarovsk, the Soviet Union also put twelve Japanese on trial for biological warfare crimes—six were members of Unit 731, two of Unit 100, an independent biological warfare entity, and four from elsewhere—and later transferred several hundred Japanese ex-servicemen suspected of war crimes to the People’s Republic of China, where Chinese authorities judged them in the mid-1950s. Of 5,379 Japanese, 173 Taiwanese, and 148 Koreans tried as class B and C war criminals for conventional crimes, violations of the laws of war, rape, murder, maltreatment of prisoners of war, about 4,300 were convicted, almost 1,000 sentenced to death, and hundreds given life imprisonment.”“The total number of Chinese deaths in Nanjing remains a subject of dispute. While the Chinese government and historians insist that some 300,000 Chinese were massacred by the Japanese in and around Nanjing—a figure from the postwar trials in Nanjing— Japanese historians have offered different estimates ranging from thousands to over 100,000. Significantly, newly discovered Japanese documents, which include the diaries of several key commanders as well as official war journals from one-third of all the Japanese regiments involved in that battle, indicate that at least tens of thousands of disarmed Chinese soldiers were executed by Japanese troops at the order of their commanders. As a result, in the mid-1980s, a representative of the veteran group Kaikōsha offered an apology to the Chinese people on its behalf.In addition to the Rape of Nanking, the “ three All” Campaign—for “Kill all, burn all, loot all,” the Chinese description of the Japanese Army’s tactics in attacking Communist guerrilla forces in north China—has long been central in Communist China’s history of the war against Japan. Many earlier studies relied solely on the testimonies of Chinese victims and survivors. Only recently have historians in Japan begun to systematically study anti-guerrilla operations in north China, including such practices as creating a “no- man’s land” by corroborating Japanese sources with Chinese evidence. The Japanese use of biological and chemical weapons (to be discussed later) and the bombing of China’s wartime capital Chongqing have become an issue for Chinese historians and activists.”(https://www.archives.gov/files/i...)This one paragraph captures why it's important to pressure the Japanese government to be held fully accountable for war crimes:“When confronted by advocacy and human rights groups, the Japanese government insisted these issues had been settled by stipulations of the peace treaty signed in San Francisco in September 1951. Nothing more needed to be said on the matter. Not only did Japanese authorities refuse to acknowledge any wartime responsibility, but several conservative politicians and senior bureaucrats went so far as to publicly denounce the accusations as groundless historical revisionism and Japan bashing. There was, of course, a domestic political dimension to the accusations (no candidate from the conservative ruling party, the LDP, could win an election by blaming Japan for a war of aggression), but the hard- line offcial Japanese position created the impression in the United States that Japanese war crimes and related subjects such as war guilt or the role of Emperor Hirohito in the war were taboo subjects in Japan.”)Witness to War: 'War orphan' recounts feeling of abandonment (This article is about a Japanese citizen who was relocated to Manchukuo close to the end of the war and her story of how the Japanese government abandoned them in China with no way home and even those who did make it back to Japan received very little help from the Japanese government to compensate for the brainwashing and horrors of war they experienced. And these are Japanese being treated bad by their own government, so it's no surprise that the Japanese government and military would treat Chinese and other Asians as being beneath them.)Japanese War Orphans and the Challenges of Repatriation in Post-Colonial East Asia (This one talks about the story of Japanese “orphans” who were left behind by the Japanese government in Manchuria and their story and hardships. It's important to understand that horrible things happened in the war and the Japanese government didn't care for Japanese lives outside Japan proper either)The other factor is that Japan has issued statements on “Great remorse” and ‘apologies’ which people feel aren't sincere enough, which is also due to the fact that on several occasions the Japanese Ministry of Education has tried to sugarcoat history books and tell publishers to not depict “dark history” of Japan or to change entire sentences, such as the Japanese aggression in China to the Japanese advance into China.Source:Examining the Japanese History Textbook ControversiesIn fact, many people are unaware that the 89′ Tiananmen Square student protest was actually the second of such protests.The one prior to it in 85′ was also a student protest to then Japanese Prime Minister Yasuhiro’s visit to the Yasukuni Shrine (Japanese War Memorial) as well as a textbook controversy back then too.This is interesting read:https://digitalarchive.wm.edu/bi...Nanjing Massacre - Facts & Summary - HISTORY.comThe Nanjing Massacre: Scenes from a Hideous Slaughter 75 Years Ago | TIME.com (Not for the squirmish)THE RAPE OF NANKING (1937) OR NANJING MASSACRE(This article by an Australian source talks about how the Nanjing Massacre is the most well documented atrocity due to the presence of Westerners who documented the slaughters)And for those with access to google and YouTube, a simple search for “ nanking massacre” or “Nanjing massacre” or even “Rape of Nanking” will provide you with more than enough videos recorded by westerners who were in Nanjing, including the most notable one by US missionary in Nanjing, John Magee.Edit: I find it relevant to add a little information about the war in the Pacific front from the perspective of China with historical information, since the most over spoken accounts are almost all American when it comes to the Pacific theater in the Western historical minds.Here are some historical info on the Chinese part of the war that is being ‘rediscovered’ by the West:The 'Chinese Schindler' who saved thousands of JewsForgotten ally? China's unsung role in World War IIMassacres and Atrocities of WWII in the Pacific Region(This talks about the various crimes of the Japanese during the onset of the war in 1931 when Japan invaded Manchuria)Imperial Japan - history-of-ww2(This link is importnant in that it shows how Japan's expansion and war was more prominently controlled by its military under Tojo than the Emperor or the central government, both of which were fairly weak during the time due an internal war between Japanese liberals and ultra-conservatives - the ultra-conservatists (ultra-nationalists) won. Japan was ruled by the military, meaning the massacres were systematic because they were ordered by the military)Here is a quote from the article that talks about how the military came to power:“Between 1928 and 1932, Japan faced domestic crisis. Economic collapse associated with the Great Depression provoked spiralling prices, unemployment, falling exports and social unrest. In November 1930, the Prime Minister Hamaguchi Osachi was shot by an ultra-nationalist. In summer 1931, as control slipped away from the civilian government, the army acted independently to invade Manchuria. Troops quickly conquered the entire border region, establishing the puppet state of Manchukuo. Though the League of Nations condemned the action, it was powerless to intervene, and Japan promptly withdrew its membership. International isolation fed ultra-nationalism. Mayors, teachers and Shinto priests were recruited by ultra-nationalist movements to indoctrinate citizens.In May 1932, an attempt by army officers to assassinate Hamaguchi’s successor stopped short of becoming a full-blown coup, but ended rule by political parties. Between 1932 and 1936, admirals ruled Japan. Within government, the idea of the ‘Greater East Asian Co-Prosperity Sphere’ emerged. This plan called for Asian unification against western imperialism under Japanese leadership, leading to Asian self-sufficiency and prosperity. In reality, it meant an agenda of Japanese imperial domination in the Far East.”** I wanted to add a bit more, since the quote talks about the puppet state of Manchukuo. This is where the infamous Unit 731 (the Imperial Army’s Biological warfare unit) was based.They did many heinous experiments on Chinese (all of whom they regarded as “logs”) which was later covered up by the American government when the war ended and the US needed a strong Japan to counter Communist China.(And yes, many of the people who did these heinous experiments are prominent doctors in their fields now)Here are some sources on it:A New Look at Japan’s Wartime Atrocities and a U.S. Cover-UpUnmasking Horror -- A special report.; Japan Confronting Gruesome War Atrocity (from 1995)Human bones could reveal truth of Japan's 'Unit 731' experimentsQ. and A.: Gao Yubao on Documenting Unit 731’s Brutal Human Experiments70 years on, Unit 731's wartime atrocities fester in China's memory | The Japan TimesThis matter also concerns American POW’s who were also experimented on and appalled by the fact that their own government covered up the crimes and let Japan off the hook.Japan revisits its darkest moments where American POWs became human experimentsNew Kyushu museum breaks taboo with POW vivisection display | The Japan TimesJapanese veteran admits vivisection tests on PoWsTruth Emerging on Ailing POWs, Japan Germ Unit**EDIT: PART 2**So I currently live with two Japanese exchange students from Osaka and Oita areas and when I asked them about such things their reply was “wtf?! Is this for real??? We never learned about this! How can the government just cover this up?”They genuinely didn't know about the wrong doings of the military during the war or that their government was hiding it behind smoke and mirrors. They also said that it was a total shock for them when they first learned about it in history classes here and that they didn't cover such things in detail at all in their history classes in Japan. They also said their teachers just said that something bad happened in Nanjing and made no mentions of other things.
Germany Chancellor Willy Brandt’s famous Warschauer Kniefall to apologise for Holocaust.Former Japanese Prime Minister Junichirō Koizumi’s dressed up to visit Yasukuni Shrine to mourn convicted war criminals.The current Japanese Prime Minister Shinzō Abe.We can forgive but we will never forget. But Japanese government won’t let us.It’s 300,000 lives, you are asking why we still care. We are human beings, not monsters.
Chinese has been hearing voices from Japan arguing that "Nanking Massacre" is a hoax, a fabrication, a war-time propaganda! And the activities of Japanese military in Nanking were in accordance with international law and were humane! Some even published a book arguing that the Tokyo Tribunal was “victor's justice” only 2,000 deaths for the entirety of the massacre!SHAMELESS!!But IT’S ALRIGHT NOW, Chinese WILL NOT care about the Nanjing massacre anymore~Back in 2015, the United Nation Education, Science and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) has officially added China's Nanjing Massacre Documents in its Memory of the World Register.WOOO~HOO~ Case Closed
This question is not directed at me by virtue of me not being Chinese (I am Vietnamese). Also, none of my family relatives experienced neither oppression nor brutality the Japanese demonstrated so conspicuously in WW2.But I DO CARE about the Nanking massacre. It was in my first quarter of college in America. I had attained a sufficient level of English proficiency to start reading books written in English. I stumbled upon this book in a Barnes and Nobles store:The Rape of Nanking: The Forgotten Holocaust of World War II: Iris Chang: 8601300280783: Amazon.com: BooksThe content of book, in particular the graphic depiction of the murder, rape committed by the Japanese during 6 weeks of butchery at Nanking, engendered in me the deepest shock and anger. What provoked in me so much hatred was not only the number of victims murdered but also the manner in which the Japanese murdered them.Here are some examples of the acts of extreme barbarism perpetrated by the Japanese during the massacre:1/ Gang raped and impaling the vaginas of Chinese women and girls with sharp objects such as bamboo sticks, golf clubs, beer bottles, or sometimes even firecrackers.2/ Age did not shield female civilians from rapes. The Japanese could rightfully be regarded as the worst child rapists in the entirety of ww2 when they violated girls as young as 8–10 years old. They even violated the elderly above 80 years of age, nuns, university professors. Especially gruesome was the treatment inflicted on young girls. Because of their not-yet-mature bodies, the Japanese used knives to slice open their genitals to facilitate the rapes. According to eye witnesses, “the blood-stained, swollen and ruptured area between the girls’ legs created a disgusting scene difficult for anyone to look at directly”.3/ Live burial of thousands of people.4/ Burying people to waist-level in the ground and let German shepherds tear them apart.5/ Nailed women to the walls and brutalized or violated them6/ Suspended people by the tongues on the meat hooks and bayoneted them to death7/ Degraded entire families by forcing fathers to rape their daughters, brothers to rape their sisters, sons to rape their mothers. Anyone who defied would immediately be murdered.8/ Engaged in recreational beheading contest to break the monotony of murder (Contest to kill 100 people using a sword - Wikipedia)9/ Sliced open the abdomen of pregnant women and ripped out the unborn fetuses for amusement.And numerous more horrendous acts of sadism and brutality can be found throughout the book.After reading the book, my attitude toward the Japanese turned 180 degree. Whatever good will, respect and compassion I used to have for them died after reading the Rape of Nanking book and numerous other accounts of Japanese war crimes.What intensifies my anger and hatred toward them is the fact that they live in denial until this day. They painstakingly distort history by misrepresenting the Nanking massacre as merely Nanking incident, and insist that only a few thousands or at most tens of thousands had died compared to the Red Cross’s statistics which indicated that 250000 and 300000 Chinese civilians and POWs had been murdered. In addition, they painstakingly censor details of all of their shameful atrocities, including the Nanking massacre, from history textbook so that the young generation of the Japanese will remain unaware of the atrocities. As the final insult, the Japanese continue to honor the war criminals enshrined at Yasukuni. That is no different from honoring Adolf Hitler and his henchmen in the middle of Berlin.Just like the Jews never want to forget the Holocaust, the Koreans never want to forget the humiliation under Japanese rule and the Comfort women, the Chinese can be pardoned for caring so much about an atrocity characterized by extreme brutality, sadism, and cruelty.My deepest condolence to the Chinese men, women whose lives were cruelly extinguished by the Japanese.
Because if you are human human, you will never forget the shock and the hit to your heart (if you have a righteous heart) when you first learned about those brutal deeds, especially when it happened to your people, your kind.What haunts you is more than such crimes as manslaughter, rape, but rather the lost of humanity to beast insanity under the cover of war, if you ever learned what had happened, not just a big volume of people were killed. It is not about the killing, it is more about how they were killed, raped, hurt, or tortured, and those victims were civilians, unarmed, without self-defense skills. Animals hunt for food, because they need to survive, it’s a birthright. But a group of soldiers who were ordinary persons like you and me, killed for joy or for no reason with extremely brutal means (beyond description of any language), or could not show minimum sympathy as a human.In Chinese history, Chinese people had witnessed stories about human eating human fleshes during war, or starvation, whether ethnic invasions in Han people’s land, or Chinese conquering other territories, but nothing had been so humanless as what they did , except for some individual lunatics or some brutal punishments implemented by the rulers that had existed for a reason, to punish crimes and enhance their rulings. But what they did, was a shere doing of anti-humanism.The above explains why we remember, and can also explain why Japanese keep denying those evildoings. Because they haven’t found a way to explain to their younger generations why their kind could have done that. It’s a normal but unacceptable response that when you can’t explain, you lie or deny, in this case, to their younger generations.Just like, if someone’s father is a very bad guy, in the jail, the mother might lie to her child that “your father died in an accident” or “your father left us without reason”, but wouldn’t talk too much about it. Lack of real courage to tell the truth. A self-deception, an absolute lie. And in this case, it’s not affecting only one family or one country, it has an effect internationally and even on the whole humanity.Just answer this question, there were multiple foreign powers combating in China during that time, why only Japanese were remembered as the evildoers by Chinese? Did China have one single reason to frame them?And, when you couldn’t explain what happened, or you couldn’t accept it, at least warn or alarm your young generation that such deeds, if they did happen, they were evil, you should never do it, because you deserve humanity.
Yes, Guizhou is one of the poorest provinces in China . We usually use these words to describe Guizhou, 天无三日晴，地无三尺平，人无三文银，means ‘ No three days are sunny, No three foots land is flat, No three yuan people have’.Guizhou province is mountainous area, and lacks infratructure, in the past decade China goverment have done lots of job to improve it.List of Highest International Bridges/Page 1 ，quite a number of bridges are built in Guizhou province.This is per capita GDP ranking of Chinese provinces.Guizhou is the third from bottom.If you want to know about China, keep far away from chanels like ‘China Uncensored’ in Youtube, it’s trash.
Guess this video is talking about 兴义 (Xingyi). If you search it in Baidu, Chinese searching engine, you will know that it’s GDP in 2015 was 3.18 billion yuan (almost $467.6 million). Considering 848 thousands people in there, Xingyi’s per capita GDP was 37.5 thousands yuan, lower than the average of the whole nation (54 thousands yuan) but higher than the average of Guizhou Province (29.8 thousands yuan). So I think maybe Xingyi is a more modern city in Guizhou Province.However, China is now trying their best to eliminate poverty, and poor provinces are developing quickly. I believe more and more cities in Guizhou Province will be like this. Welcome to China and visit it. :)
Guizhou, like yunnan next door, are beautiful mountainous provinces with tons of ethnic diversity and relatively undeveloped. If you visit china, go to these places and you won't be disappointed. It is because they are relatively more undeveloped that makes them nice places. Farmers live more traditional lifestyles, sure it is a hard life for them and they would welcome more development, but overall they aren't unhappy. For tourists, this is a chance to see a more ideal china that haven't been yet completely transformed by development.
Sorry,the video you linked i can't watch because of Internet limit.In my view,every place has both lights and shadows.On one hand, it's poor,on the other hand,the scenery there can be very attractive.Some cities seem prosperous,there are also beggars.As a developing country,China inevitablely has some cities in extreme poverty,but eliminating poverty is on the agenda of the government,so their getting rid of poverty is on the way.Besides,China’s territory is vast,its attractive sites are also countless.The picture you think unreal may be real.If you have a tour in China,you will have a better perception.
Well, because it’s a province. A province is big. So poor areas riches areas, All you can find. That's not propaganda, who will be that boring to make everyday video to do propagandas!
Desmond CarolanThe question is somewhat strange to me. Most Chinese people do not see the PLA as their oppressors in any way, so they they do not need to "liberate themselves" from it.Certainly from talking to Chinese students both in London and Beijing, I can only agree with the view that Chinese people generally see the People's Liberation Army (PLA) in a positive light.The PLA is both admired and respected for its role in disaster relief and the fact that its soldiers are prepared to risk their lives in saving people. Several Chinese students also told me that the PLA provides a means for (mainly) young men from the poorest parts of China to escape poverty.The PLA provides them with good meals, good accommodation and clothing which they may not have had access to before joining. It moreover gives them training and skills that they can use when they leave the PLA,. Consequently, the PLA is a means of  social mobility and advancement for many people in China.In short, the Chinese People's Liberation Army is respected by the vast majority of the Chinese people for the work it does relieving the effects of natural disasters and the courage of its soldiers doing so. It also offers many young men from poor backgrounds opportunities that they otherwise would not have.
Because the PLA belongs to people.May be other country’s army established only for national territory defense or military deterrence.But in China, Chinese people know what their army do for them.When the earthquake happenThis is the PLA！When the flood come,This is the PLA！When they leavePeople thank them！What reason we have to attack them?They are our relatives.They has done too much for us……
Because we are so poor we have no money to buy weapons, if you could provide us with following weapons we will attack the PLA with all might:Joint Strike Fighter*300 F22*200,Virginia class submarine*50,Hypersonic electromagnetic rail gun*30,F2000 assault rifle*2,000,000,DG51 Arleigh Burke class guided missile destroyer*50,XM307 automatic grenade launcher*2000,The V-22 Osprey transport aircraft*500,UGM-133 Trident-II*200,000，Ford class aircraft carrier*20 .With all these and other neccessary machines and a military supply of 600 billion dollars every year, we Chinese can build a huge army to attack PLA.BTW, please lend the military bases and airports in the west Pacific and regions around China freely so we can place our men and machines.Please hand over the control of the GPS to the Chinese people so we are not blind.Let’s go and destory the evil communists!
Question question, are you from China yourself? If you are not then it would be hypocritical to assume that outsiders can think of things better for people that are in china itself. What I've learned so far is most people like to assume that democracy and “free market” is for everybody in the world. People from the outside easily judge people in other countries as unhappy with their lot. They may not allow their citizens to go out and make a fool of themselves and post it online but this does not define contentment and happiness for every person outside your social strata.Why should they attack those who are meant to help and protect them?
In response to all the sinophile answers, the name “People’s Liberation Army”, does have a rather oppressive/ominous jingle to it for westerners. More often than not, it gets confused with the Palestine Liberation Organization, which conjures up images of mideast terrorism (it certainly did for me, when i first heard the acronym, while growing up in the west). Just by changing this english name to something more mild (and nothing else), China could tremendously reduce its perceived military tensions with the west.Media is all about getting viewers attention with troll-baiting titles (Quora included), and China’s military literally hands itself on a silver platter to western-media with such an inflammatory-sounding english name. Here are some example news title i just dug up on google. Imagine how less ominous they would sound, if china’s military got rid of the PLA english moniker:Why don't chinese people attack the PLA with all their might and liberate themselves? (Yeah, down with the oppressive PLA! they’re related to the PLO right?)…Why don't chinese people attack China’s Army with all their might and liberate themselves? (Wtf has china’s army ever done to its own people recently? What an obviously stupid Quora question)People's Liberation Army ups its recruitment gameChina’s Army ups its recruitment gameXi Jinping Takes Command Of The People's Liberation ArmyXi Jinping Takes Command Of China’s ArmyPeople's Liberation Army to become most modern military by 2020China's Army to become most modern military by 2020
Your neighbour’s father once came to your house when you were still a baby. He asked your father to give up the house because he is much better at managing it. Your father refused. So he killed your father, raped your mother and killed her, took your brother to some terrible experiments and killed him, raped your elder sister to death and killed your little sister who was only 2 months old at the time.Your neighbor’s mother, at the same time, was so proud of what her husband had done. She made nice meal for him and wished him can kill some more in your home. And then, someone stronger came, killed your neighbour’s mother and made the man stop. However the man gave all that he took from your house, like the data of experiments on your brother, to that someone for exchange. So, that someone let him go, freely. But, well, that's another story. Let's come back to you and your neighbor.To be fair, both you and your current neighbor were too young to remember anything back that time. Now you grow up and his dad is dead already. Well, the past is the past, let it go, you thought.But the other day, you passing your neighbor’s house and find, oh, he is having a celebrating party. A party, cool, you thought.“What is the party for?” you ask.“For my feather and his great killing skill and the glory fight that he won from your father!” he said, looking in your eyes with a lovely smile, “the past is past, you won't mind right?”“Yes!He is so cuuute! His mother was also killed! He is a victim! You must forgive him, you bad Chinese!” shout someone who watched this.
Chinese have every right to be hateful to Japan, because of what they did.That being said, the past is the past, and most Japanese people are not like that now, but when you hurt a people as much as they did back then, it's difficult to move on. For many Chinese, it's impossible to move on.That being said, it doesn't help that 40% of Chinese television is war against Japan shows and movies. That and parents and teachers religiously teach their children that Japan is bad, and we must hate them.I have had many students, 6 and 7 years old, who tell me “I hate Japan! I want them to burn!” And I just frown and say “Why?” They say “Because they are bad, that's why!”There's nothing we can do about it when it's a part of their culture to hate Japan.Answer: Why? Because it's a popular idea that sells, and remembering what they did to China back then puts a fire in many Chinese hearts, one that us foreigners just cannot begin to comprehend.In a way similar to any blockbuster film about Iraq and 9/11.
Not that hateful as you thought. Haha.In the Chinese quora, zhihu, there is a serial of questions “How developed/good is XXX(a certain country)”. The number of views and followers may show the attitude of zhihu users.Question: How Good is Japan? follower 34340 view 8899366Question: How Developed is Japan? follower 82160 view 8389399And for the US:Question: How Developed is the US? follower 32886 view 1256134for northern EuropeQuestion: How Developed is northern Europe? follower 10569 view 438076for the UK, France and GermanySo….among all the main developed country in this world, we like Japan the most…
well for starters, all of the japanese pms refuse to acknowledge the war crimes committed - apologies were half hearted and me, a westernized chinese person will still boycott japanese products simply because in 1940, my grandfather and 4 other relatives of mine were brutally executed while fighting the japs - no pow camps - just a bayonet through your chest - my great-grandmother had to throw my grandmother into the bushes so the japanese wouldn’t find my grandmother and kill her or perform sick and twisted experiments on her - they did this to basically the entire country of china - every single chinese person in china has an extremely personal connection like melets not forget to mention that shinzo abe still goes to shrines honouring war criminals
I am tired of these questions polluting my FEED. Just one last time.There's a special shrine in Japan, 護国神社/shrine honouring the war dead, which has branches (shrines are like banks) in almost all the Japanese cities.What does the war dead mean?Including all the killers who had invaded my motherland in the history, from the first Sino-Japan war, Russo-Japan war (occured in China), the illegal occupation of NorthEast China, to the WW2.Including those who attacked Pearl Harbour, and who slaughtered and enslaved countless East/SouthEast Asian people.These war criminals have been and will be honoured officially in Japanese shrines.Current Japan has no part in the military past? What are you talking about: Abe Shinzo’s grandpa is a A class war criminal.Given the killer shows no regret, are you asking me why we are not polite?
The reason why I decided to live in Shanghai for such a long time is very simple: I'm happier here despite China holds some shortcomings we all know (pollution, house price, food safety, etc…).So, why am I happier here?Mainly because:I became so familiar with the city to the point I feel it's now “my place”, like a kind of second hometownI have good friends I do care aboutI have learned things that made me a better personAnd I do care a lot about personal safety. It feels great to be in a huge city where you can be free to walk around at any time of the day and without threatsEven in the past I got opportunities to go back to Europe with higher salary and better package, but I declined it. Perhaps I'm a sentimental guy, but I do mind to stay where I feel happy. Money is important but isn't everything; what matters the most is that you are in harmony with yourself, whether it's in China or any other place in the world, you should follow what you really want and what makes you feel better.On the other hand, there are many Chinese people who go abroad for study but eventually they'll move back to China at one point. At least that's what I noticed in my ten years experience here.Pursue your happiness and you'll be fine.
As someone else has commented here, many foreigners who enjoy living in China have an underlying reason/purpose for being here.Some believe it is the land of opportunity in the 21st century. They expect to come here and are willing to spend half to all of their lives trying to become successful.Some are here for experience. They think by gaining international experience in a country that is becoming more and more important for corporations, they will have an advantage over others when moving back.Some are fascinated with Chinese culture or asian anime, so they move to an Asian country.Some are here for the language. Mastering Chinese is their life long pursuit.Some are fascinated by Chinese women or men. They come here looking for a husband or wife.Some are here to get closer to their roots. They were raised by Chinese parents but lack a true connection and the experience of living in China.Talking to all of these types of foreigners in China who are positive about living here. Most of their reasoning is financial. They believe that in China, you can have a decent life and save money as well. Their above purpose is what makes them believe this is a great place to be long-term.Most Chinese people migrate for 3 main reasons. Education, Pollution, and Less Competition/More Oppurtunity. All of these reasons are because of their children to get a better life in the future - especially the first 2.
Every country has unique opportunities and unique competitive forces. Competition in China for jobs, educational opportunities, etc. is very high. They have a huge widely dispersed population and it can be difficult to differentiate yourself and get access to those opportunities. They generally emigrate to get access to unique opportunities that are a better fit for their situation or to become part of a culture that rewards particular traits, behaviors, skills, education, etc.There’s a lot of focus in China on better integrating and doing business with western companies, so there are lots of opportunities for people who can bridge those cultural gaps. In some companies, just being a Western ex-patriot can make you somewhat of a rock-star. However, if you’re a highly motivated, individualistic person from rural China without a formal education, you may find that Western culture will reward that drive and passion more than Chinese culture will.What it comes down to is that there’s no “one best country” to live or work in. It’s all very situational and has a lot to do with your personality, skills, experience, education, background, etc. People who have traits or abilities that are surplus or even detrimental in their country can often relocate to where those traits or abilities are in demand. But, there’s so much variety and diversity in people and cultures that you’ll often see traffic moving in both directions.
I’m not sure I have anything Terribly Insightful to add to the thread, but I’d like to share a brief synopsis of my time in China. I moved here at the beginning of 2015 to take a job I was very excited about. (The details aren’t important.) Here are three reasons I love living in China: 1. This may well be the warmest, most welcoming country I have ever been to outside the US. 2. Despite what one may see or hear, the urban areas are clean and modern. I mean, nothing’s perfect, but I’d rather live in Tianjin (where I am) than in most metropolitan areas in the US. (Bear in mind that my Chinese sucks, and I still feel this way.) 3. The incredible blend of complexity, diversity and thousands of years of history is absolutely fascinating. As someone else pointed out, it’s no more appropriate to think of China as a single country than it is to think about Europe or Central America as being single countries. (Central America might be the better analogy, because of the nominal homogeneity of language.)Sure, there are things that are very different, and the monolithic government and bureaucracy can be challenging - but I knew those risks when I moved here, and don’t have any bad feelings. In fact, in general, if you don’t do anything to cause public embarrassment, or embarrassment to the government, it’s actually a very liberal society.Just my opinion, but I’m happy here, and grateful to have welcomed into the country.
There are 1.4 billion people living in China, millions of Chinese people who migrate abroad won’t make a huge difference in statistic. The ratio is almost insignificant to our society, and there’s no notable relevance between the number of migrants and living standard in China. Let’s say the US: an ideal place for people who pursue business startups, job opportunities, education fulfillment and high living standard. But even in the most developed country in our planet, the number of people who abandon American citizenship every year skyrockets these years: some of them migrate abroad, some of them withdraw their business, some of them book an airline ticket back to their motherland without doubts and regrets. All nations have flaws and merits, people migrate for thousands of reasons.Millions of Chinese people migrate because they have different career orientation, lifestyle choice, education options or marriage choice. I was born and raised in China, been traveled to different countries around the world. I appreciate the advancement and superiority of western countries in educational system, environmental protection, healthcare, individual freedom and diversity of career choices, but undoubtedly the rising problems and upcoming dilemmas are jeopardizing the social structure and western values in developed countries.China is not a terrifying place to live in, I don’t want to elaborate since some other answers are quite thorough and comprehensive about it. The charisma and charm of China would be embraced if you experience it by yourself. :) 2governing” 1four 4hanging 1aggression 3increase 1thus, 1Western 22starved, 2Restrained 1come,This 1Hello(nihoma) 1cultures.Also, 1only.A 1hardships. 1advice: 1basics 2internally 1prize 1Less 1wooden 1(29.8 1Sinkiang.Some 1（1911.10–1912.1）: 1commented 1NO, 1(except 1her. 3tired 3ate, 1day。————————————————————————————————————火到了第二天才熄灭，老翁幡然醒悟，捂着面大哭的说到：是暖和了却真的只剩我一人了。The 1MPR, 1pan-Asian 1second 10sooth 1errors 1relieving 1contributed 2understood. 1fruits, 1reasons, 1reasons. 3brainwashed 1here 32iceberg. 1fun 5china 4Forgotten 1people.Since 2voice.  1warlords. 1kids 5elaborate 1Settlements 2Xian 2reports 3controversy 2here.Some 1NOT 2military 18criticism 1loanwords, 2Mutton 2positions. 1explained 2Three 4brought 5population, 4population. 1spoke 2concept. 1ruling. 1ruling, 1Levels 1music 2therefore 1passport 1leap. 1until 13dry. 1holy 1relax 1successful 4brings 1hurt 499 2glass 3responsible.Japan 2democracy’. 1hold 7annoying. 1circumstances 3morally 2locked 2supply, 1blade 1judicious.Take 1itself 8conceded, 1rework 1example 7Le 1Cdrama. 1Cdrama, 1unjust 1household 2organized 1Revive 2Li 1SINGLE 1population  1Manchuria. 1want 37apart.5/ 1absolute 3LA 2complaining 3travel 12damage 2how 48hot 1didn’t, 2Dynasty. 1palaces 1A 25beauty 6typed 1crackdowned 1wrong 9factor. 1types 1statesAnnexation 1effective 1ho, 1revolt 1that.I 2democratic 7wind 2wine 1Willy 1restriction 1school. 4school, 3welcomed 1‘rediscovered’ 1beings, 1journals 1His 3ingredients, 1died. 3fit 2lifeline 1secede 3survivors 1enough.(edited 1hidden 3easier 4forced-out 1SaoMa 1determination.Ship 1schools 3sixteen 1undeveloped 2silver 1scholar 1airports, 1130,000 1Hunan 1addicted 1volcano 2restaurants, 2restaurants. 1country.Jaded 1expectancy 1burial 1financial 2created.In 1Mongolia 4man’s 1CCP?Because 1message 2girl。————————————————————————————————————外面风雪更大了，于是两人干脆坐着一起烤火，老人便自诉道：年轻时喜欢看木偶戏，为了学习钻研木偶戏，耽搁了时光，学会了，年龄也大了，但是对此也更加坚定，于是便以木偶戏为职业Outside 1law.Even 1at: 1calligraphy.Each 1assured 1threatened 1managerial 1born, 4crime” 1ice-breaker 1Italy. 1moment 21956. 1ups 4Human 11970s 1Facts 1luxuriant, 1appreciable 1quo.Now, 1.With 1Please 1Due 1channels 1wash 2power” 1hagsaengVietnamese: 1BinhJust 1Hunanese 1)④我去=YuckIn 1173 1month’s 1service 2sure: 1her, 1people’ 1nation, 2needed 6nation. 2blossoms 2legs 1Surely, 1listen 2Tibet! 1rewards 1collapse 1stultifies 1exaggerated. 1exaggerated) 1Tibet. 12008, 1was, 3Beauties 1showed 2nations 9shower 22004)The 1feeling 6Chinese.The 1old. 1million, 1indepedent 1“卧槽”,“我操”,“what 1runner 1heads. 1well, 2well. 6subways, 1issues:What 1Then 3responsible 2Singapore, 1membership. 1Singapore. 1causing 1Minister 6They 48stimulating. 1shall 2mouth 2fast. 1organization 1was  1policies. 2policies, 1“wtf?! 1Repatriation 1door, 1Regardless, 2China 215tech 1operas, 1“50-0-50” 1homophone 1came 12marvel 4saying 4pedestrians. 1Union 4others‘ 1Amethyst 1ALRIGHT 1‘ 2Ryukyu).Even 1warmer, 1lessons 1touches 1busy 3lights 2headline 1menu 1unrest. 1theme 1touched 1rich 3rice 1Technology, 1minimal. 1pocket 1meeting, 1lies, 1INDOORS!  1societies 2bus: 1deny 2Arleigh 1them? 2accordance 1men, 1men. 1bus. 1them! 1adherence 2them. 5understand.The 1lesson. 1them) 1lesson, 1blew 1disaster 1fair 2JewsForgotten 1What＇s 1Uighur 1result 1fail 1John 1(locally 1best 10jaywalked 1lots 3rings 3Confucius, 1propagated 1safer.  1hence 2financial, 1never 43nature 1least-known 1provinces.Guizhou 1pad. 1cards 2extent 1countries’ 1tyranny 1accident 1veer 1country 49conclusions 1demanded 1President.party 1lot. 1《袁氏治国》by 1lot, 1ambition. 1argue 1adapted 1asked 14pre 1honouring 2money. 1money, 1Closed 1humming 2Movement 1skirt. 1shouting 2union 2Malay 2. 5Peranakan 1Vietnam/foreign 1much 41language/characters, 1apple，”says 1life 23Mothers 1options, 1intermarry 1child 4worked 5$2000 1presidency 1mid-1950s. 1ink, 1Brandt 1nuisance.Authority 1remembering 3provisional 11932, 2played 2justice” 1trees, 1Uighurs 1LOL 1giớiJapanese: 1said, 7Canada, 2memorial 2Sun’s 6girls’ 1severity 1things 41format 1thievery 1rebellion 2harmony 6Shanghai.I 1comment?If 11989《中华革命党时代的回忆》by 1passed, 1fairly 1poor,on 1Maybe 1Cannes, 1differences. 1Zhonghua”. 1bikes, 1alas, 1burgers 1which, 1thing. 3thing, 1opinions 212/28, 1Manchuria)Imperial 1self-deception, 1military)Here 1homogeneity 1financially 1THAN 2previous 2“underground 1headedness 1had 91advancement 3easy 7has 108(Australia)Guam 2population? 2casually 1disagreement 2possible 2possibly 2birth 1unique 3opinion, 2occurring 1pedestrians.Remember 1heard)So 1(和服), 1remind 1misled 2steps 2about.And 1Firstly, 1spectacle. 1upside. 1right 25old 13dialect.To 1crowd 1people 182crown 1System 3Between 1testify, 1left) 3enemies 1citizen: 1oppressive 1for 328bottom 1gameChina’s 1China.3. 1Xizang, 1sowed 1continue 7Facebook 2pattern 1exhilarating, 1losing 3manufacturing 3First 2defendants, 1defendants. 1dollars 3citizens 3Zedong, 1sovereignty, 1MPR 1stoked 1faded, 1raised 3right? 3statements 1shrill, 1Month, 1Koreas 1fulfilled, 1son 3thankful 1beings 3customs.They 1Korean 7perfume. 1ISIS 3support 17top10 1raped 7prosecution, 1‘Life 1happy 3“This 1cooperative.LACK 1offer 1forming 1$200 1return.Another 1so, 1so. 1incorporation 1Korea, 3so? 1they’re 71958. 1humbled 1Tong 2rape, 4inside 3tell 14Engineering 1nicest 1wait, 1oneSingle 1Constitution, 1150 2(Hui 1adopt 2proved 3retch.French 1romantic?You 1textbook 2proves 1exist 1model. 2model, 1sprouts 1A2A, 2Francisco 1floor 2geographically 1role 68601300280783: 1smell 1E 1modern, 1modern. 1transported 1drops, 2muslims 1rolling 1non-Shariah 1senior 1workers. 1because:I 1Nanjing— 1decades.Liberals 1Nanjing” 2time 41Empire 3breadth 2:) 2corps 1whoever 1-小明期末考试得了第一名。(Xiaoming 2integration 1crocodile 190 1China.As 1Russian. 2religion 1behave 1cook, 1:o 1Tibet’s 1choice 2Indian, 2bustle 1smile)I 1exact 1Kai-shek 1discovered 2poor. 2tear 3phrases. 1Tay 1answers. 1leave 7crustacean 1settle 2subway 2team 2loads 1unaware 2prevent 2spiritual 1us…… 1whim. 1insignificant 1yard, 1)-我去。我还要很多其他的事情要做呢！(Yuck. 1Rabaul, 1sign 2chopping 1shirts 1https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc...The 1celebrated 1current 5remembered 2influence.Notice 1falling 1celebrates 2Memorial) 1Ma 1Europe? 1matter).The 1persecutes 1inevitablely 1understanding 5snack 1alone 4persecuted 1Europe. 2My 13enroll 1PrideChatting 1criminal, 1studied 1wherever 2enterprises. 1MV 1studies 1unification, 11919, 1tasks 1love 16I’ll 2POWs 4IVs 1prefer 1oriented. 1logically 1fake 2hard-tipped 1towards 10August 1working 16perished 1positive 10angry 3Brandt’s 1believe, 2Uyghurs 3TimesJapanese 1films 2Inspiration) 1words.we 1Those 2loving 1high-speed 2Iris 1China.Source:Examining 1afford 2Orphans 1Children's 2long 26goods 2everywhere 1virtue 1blood. 2easiest 1behalf 1Chinese.While 1film, 2originally 1imagination. 1values 9Tienanmen 1democracy. 1believed 6Our 1admired 2Monkey 1awesome 3well)Spicy 1heard. 1heard, 2allowed 4clothing, 1kindness, 1monitoring 2divided 1Who 3Why 8Hanja, 1listen. 1villages). 1Shariah 1Queen’s 1fueled 1ForeignersSad 1improving 1such 43data 3Seven, 1whoever.XinJiang 1stress 1natural 7sectors 1conscious 1grazing. 1mild, 1rude. 2rude, 1inhabiting 1more.Affordable 1so 89swollen 1pulled 4Islam 1thinks….) 1chat.Old 1Barnes 1”,etc.eg. 1find 24below. 1years 50professors 1course 11experiments 7Blooms’. 1early. 1“ 9batteries.Rather 1honesty, 2disconnect 1internationally 2did, 2did. 3amazing 4“go 1dead, 1decades 3firearms? 1civilian 4nation 13year, 2records 1(There's 1non-Han 3maintaining 1decade. 1establishing 1Treaties 2quarter 2next. 1Symbols, 1Japan/foreign 1Live 1P2P 1entering 1sexually 1for.Despite 1old，but 1reorganized 1disasters 1minority 2Welcome 1seriously 2investigation 1internet 1squares 1friends, 2unemployment, 18389399And 1Opium 1Places 1Rwanda? 2million 5food, 5disrespect 2complicated 1growth. 1food. 3training 1square, 1(highways, 1undeveloped. 1Money 1protection, 1massive 1saving 1anymore. 1anymore, 1spoken 5ATM 2one 92leavePeople 1vote 16“more 1open 9career————————————————————————————————————虽然自得其乐，但是却一生漂泊，居无定所，没有伴侣，唯一陪伴的就是木偶了，老翁一边讲着一边哭泣，我安慰他，恳请他伴奏，做傀儡戏，He 1languish 1city 12Hamaguchi 1indicate 12 3separatists 3Nanking” 1on. 2on, 3我去 1today’s 2much. 1representing 2History 3famine 1bit, 1(1949-present, 1counters 1future 10yuan). 11924 1wandering 1continuously, 1世界 5locations 1sad 3“your 2prestigious 1say 27buried 2dye染我眼角珠泪That 1this.The 2saw 14sinhJapanese: 1sat 4law, 1law. 1beginning.After 1violates 1note 1else), 1take 18destroy 1bad, 5world…………”————————————————————————————————————According 1opposite 2buffer 1knew 2taste. 1nice, 2benefits, 1average 3sale 1around.the 1phones.Most 1Groceries 1not, 6not. 2salt 1fascinated 3laws 4walking 10surplus 1merit 1bright 1strong.We 2aggressive 1ShameA 1slow 1A.: 1short 9liberation 2tears 1going 23Historians 1‘Largest 1I'll 9nothing’s 1Beijing 8System, 2factories. 1imagine, 1outlet 1Having 1prime 1artist 1bombs 1worries 4where 30neighbors, 1neighbors. 1annexed 3left愿谁记得谁 1 Chines 1Specifically 1impressions 1job, 1purest 1(ROC), 1That 9sites 2affecting 1enjoys 1man, 4(China 1impression. 1mature 1vertical 1screen 2suppresses 1我爱中国 1awards 1liberally, 1PRC 9many 73Chin(ese) 1west. 1west, 1catcalls 1site. 1representative, 1ironic:The 1Bridges/Page 1can't 11Province.However, 1conquerors. 1psychos, 1reading. 1兴义 1want. 1boat 1want, 3caring 1food”.And 1west 6brainwashing 1it.  1breath 1don’t 37like.Hong 1cabs, 1wants 6panic, 1lanes 2leisure 1Whenever 1unsafe 2thousand 2formed 2photos 1calligraphy 2former 7single 15complaint…..The 1outIf 1policies 1now)Here 1situation 2cafes 1DIE 1cars, 3Looking 1fire.“Yes 1cars: 1blab 1technology 2‘operating 1ingrained 1LanguageEverywhere 1train, 2living. 1train. 1happened.That’s 1country’s 3I 473picture.NOTE: 1internet, 1Says 1trains 3dimension 1effects 1summer 3being 55acronym, 1officers, 1exaggerating 1218 1BOW 1recycled 1“unprecedented 1Kwai. 1bricks 1(I 4overthrow 1prominently 1relavent 2loveNow 1around 20speech’, 1speech’. 1dark 1Genocide 2học 1inferiors 2world 29eyes演离合相遇悲喜为谁For 1groups, 2condolence 1dare 2directly”.3/ 160 1humanity.Just 195% 1thought.But 1superiority 3(驱逐鞑虏), 2Instead, 1museums, 1punishment, 1learning 5China.North 1V-22 1educationWomen 1thinks 1doors") 1scandals 1Terry, 1Projects 1refer 2think, 2advertisements, 1power 10wife…..ToleranceThe 1punishments 1multi-party 1when/where 1Revolution 4origins 1industry 4favorite 1side 10shopfronts 1stipulations 1(UNESCO) 1non-Muslims 1neighbor 3luck 1burning 2No 7electricity, 2Studdenly 2(韓服), 1homeless 1parties 3Rapes 1survive, 2trip. 1trip, 1fine.Bring 1her 32things.I 1hey 1trip! 1obvious, 1ago 5continents 1N. 1hand.  1societal 1‘Yes’ 1Small 1with 248Pakistan, 1pull 3rush 1monopoly 2myth, 1dirty 3innovate, 1he, 1Close 1politically 2trips 2programs.Source: 1(WeChat) 1detailed 1gone 3citizenship 2frustrated. 1migrate 5certain 6stealing 1am 30wartime 7an 102Blossoms’.我自是百般推脱，他自是千般盛情。I 1How 9as 209ensuing 1studies, 1walks 1watched 2right)]Traditional 1assault, 1graduate 1tight 2Osprey 1Asian 13oh, 1passerby 1Alex 2congress 2a) 1ombudsmen, 1Mexico? 1slang 1someone. 1mask 1finery, 1hello 1Street 1mass 4original 3expat, 3externally 1elements, 1consider 1What?I 1caused 3(if 2reasoning 1(in 2“class 2illustrates 2low-key, 1Jdrama 1smile 3is. 4case 4fire.————————————————————————————————————我来不及制止，只能跺脚，哀叹惋惜这木偶。It 1surprise 2poverty,but 1prices.I 1corporations, 1expats 3(54 117th 2periods.Also, 1accompanying 2joined 1¯\_(ツ)_/¯.If 1large 9small 13Holocaust.Former 1accommodating 1unclean, 1chocking 2past 10pass 3perceptions, 1assaults 1perceptions. 1Significantly, 1intense". 1clock 1“Can’t 1prevailed 1scientists 4seemed 2method 1TibetBefore 1full 4hours 5civilians 4(Europe 1criminality 1yourself? 1street” 1scientist/ 1experience 17yourself, 1prior 1yourself. 2social 16would've 2murdering 1via 1followed 2follower 4duties, 1worry-free 1parties. 1crowded, 2submarine*50,Hypersonic 1Romans 1God, 16 7Russian 4victims.MORE 2more 116door 1company 2spoilt 1tested 1compatibility, 1documents, 1evolves 1keeping 2science 2Today’s 1sent 3evolved 5learn 24knocked 2male 5criminal.Given 1Your 2eras 1beautiful 13bitter.When 2(with 2scan 1accept 3treatment. 1sense 6plan. 1dress 1information 7respective 1FEED. 1salts, 1unattended 1(they 2宗教信仰自由 1salt. 1plans 1sides, 1country). 1ethics 1civilization. 1refuse 2bars.Shopping 1France, 1PLA,. 1fundamental 2cases, 1centuries-long 3Taoism 2replied 1ito 1dialects. 1dialects, 1reminded 1day.After 1trade 1men.Women 1attitude 4paper 1replies 1looks. 1its 65features 1vote?" 1mistreated 1course, 6symptoms 1truth. 1Muslims.Flag 1LDP, 1travelling 4Versatile 1it. 26pursue 2it, 9Tang-influence, 1it? 6comforted 1system’ 2designation 1lace. 1all. 3all, 7all) 1yearns 1strangling 1Thanks 1all? 1found 14Sounds 1help, 1(tough 1(but 1engendered 1reduce 1it.Last 1really 42ArmyPeople's 1Class 1highway 1belief 1risen 2confidence 1drastically.So, 1interpretation.2. 1owners 1retained 1woman's 1Years 1instigation 1black, 2major 8precautionary 1slipped 1world?兰花指捻红尘似水In 1girls 8Dalai 6number 19Zhonghua 1guess 9heads 3threatening 1ex-patriot 1event. 1first, 2relationship 5Gita, 1appreciation 2Boyfriends 1grace 1joy举手投足不违背Never 1ranging 1determined 2marriage 2them.)Japanese 1taxis 1“free 1remembers 1pedestrian 1sell 2oppressive/ominous 1Founding 1destabilizing 1self 6fashion) 1negatives. 1also 55recognizing 1internal 3seized 1moving.A 1play 4Nicobar 2decide….I 1Tibet, 3In 48complexity, 1"'Democracy 1plan 4fight. 3Google 2parks, 3cover 6parting, 1attractive.Some 1artistic 2fashions 1Germany. 2attacking 1it”.Because 1golf 1non-Westernized 1Han 35statecraft 1Palestine 1frequently. 1occupation 2Kingdom 1access 6Muslim 7toEarn 1failed 4pleasure. 1heights. 1factor 3manslaughter, 1giants 1“pig” 1matter:https://www.archives.gov/files/i...There 1alive, 2closely 2Premier. 1Elements, 1River.Truck 1proclaim 2calendar, 2(UK)Nauru 2couriers 1river 2Korean, 1years’ 1set 4For 9stronger, 1sex 1collectively 1see 55backfire 131, 1cities.What 1whole.Westerners 1muted 1healthy, 1healthy/ 1currently 2There’s 3Nguyen 1fly你一引我懂进退You 1available 1“amazed 1Against 1incident 2individualism, 1users.Question: 1Sometimes, 1last 10influential 1harpy 1old, 1humane! 1goverment 1poverty 3whole 3load 2everyone's 1acted 1)-我去。这不可能！(Unbelievable. 1race, 2community 3Nobel 2industry)Chinese 1agents 3days.There 1)! 1fun. 1So  1Sinosphere 3Cars 1mentality. 1hitting 1lucrative 1quality, 1speech.PS: 1silenced 1fire 3what's 1(Thanks 1fund 1opposite.The 1Saudi 1systematic 1towns 1handling 2Old 1Tekong 1empirical 1receive 1pressed 2leaning 1monsters. 1victors’ 1education.Tiny 1miles 1him，just 130 8young.Like 1activists.”(https://www.archives.gov/files/i...)This 1genetations, 2Dynasty, 2police. 3chase 1unfit 1funny 1sounding 1simple.Historically, 1Leninism. 1So, 6ambitions. 1rules 4Temple.He 1virtually 1Many 7survey 2flickers我和你 1PM’s 1spiralling 1comprehensive 1kindergartens 1henchmen 1photographic, 2leaps 1empirial 1infamous 1recent 5early 5action, 1Son 1person 17yet, 1clasped 1do! 1abbreviation 1victim! 1victim. 1demand. 1Asia’s 1centuries.Speaking 2ladies, 1seen.”“But 1communication, 1eager 1parents 3testimonies 1relevance 1surprised 6amusing 1On 9important.) 1victims 9doors 5demands 3Of 7wives 1seaNew 2testify. 1emergence 1Or 4formal 2OK 3OF 2surprise* 1individuals 2surprise, 1Dakota 1OR 1names 9sue 1mighty 1mideast 1Frank 1SHAME 1rehabilitating 1prosecuted 1(capitalist) 1temple 4answers, 1And, 2Look 4crudely.(Sometimes 1idealistic 1Shanghai.Who 1agreement 1India’s 1nowhere 1Conincidently 2Fruits 1by 177country”. 1anything 10tripe.As 1imperialism. 1democracy, 1wrinkles 1provinces----under 1Most, 1blackmailed 1surprises 1parties.Chiang’s 1naturally, 2terrorists 1into 39fast, 1integral 1appropriate 1next 10span 1sneaky 1(有贺长雄, 1submit 1report.; 1: 8fragmented 2elsewhere 1Holocaust 3link 2kidding) 1line 7themselves 6GDP 10open, 1right)Taoist 1spa, 1Koreas, 1up 55us 17Planetgraphy 1yuan) 1yuan, 1yuan. 1Brits 1continuously 1yuan! 1alarm 3it.People 1side. 2influence 9lost. 1“my 1bad-ass 1diverse 1Memory 1beginning. 1nationalism 3living, 1defines 1rescue, 1points 6remaining, 1hell. 1elements 1nightmare..There 2suppression 12014. 1sides 2families.In 1land 6powerless.Imagine 1Shanghai.China’s 1pedestrians 1age 2walked 2enrolled 1president. 2having 13foreigner/expat 1code 2motivated, 1scooped 1CPC 2results 1existing 1highways 2sadism, 1legal 3continue. 1Shi-Kai.” 1time.The 1centers 2luxuries 1desperation, 1concerned 1young 18Glass 1indicating 1731’s 2continues 3reopened 2highway, 1result. 1Zodiacs, 1result, 298.8% 1continued 6joy?他们迂回误会They 1northwestern 1magic 2marry 1fewer 1try 11cheap, 1cheap. 2feelings………..If 1pledge 1paid 3Tofu 1Period 3recruitment 2Plateau, 1video 3china, 2odd 2unhappy. 1that, 5that. 2foods, 2consistently 1today, 1polluting 1flowing 1Tibetan 6scenery 1everything; 1led 4praise 2unenthusiastically 2Freedom 1northeast 2everything. 1web 1consideration 1invented 2victims.Bones 2great 28decapitated, 2involved 4Tatar 2“culturally 1resulting 2‘the 2influence.[China 1residents 1makes 13thats 1disobey 1trains. 1standing 2resilience, 1for?” 1illegal 1it.In 1(Police 1it.It 2doubt 3yardstick 1feetEverything 1pieces.Xizang 1carrying 1sharply 1baby 2Kingdom.ConclusionThese 1gameXi 1animals 1integrating 1this 128challenge 1when 89it.Being 1Written 2pour 1China.China 1scatter 2water, 2painstakingly 2speech’ 1billboards 1water. 1rode 2transportation.Be 1pieces 1high 16Liberation 9Policy 1vivisection 2Several 2weaken 1Mongols, 1educational 2学生 2reposting 1Insightful 1forth苦乐都跟随Following 1tied 1denounce 1purpose, 1atrocities. 1atrocities/ 2realized 1USA. 1USA, 4counter 1One 11allow 3opinion 6outline. 1evolutionary 1massacre:The 2context.“谁去买酱油？”（anybody 1move 10victims. 2China.In 1wife's 1perfect 3Nanjinger 2important, 2couldn’t 3responsibilities 2(Indonesia)Timor 2degrees 22015 22014 1zhihu 1elites 1designs 1(Kanji 1outlined 1sobs…It’a 2Manchus 3soldiers. 2bothering 1kiss 1transparent 1presidential 1San 2degree. 1Beijing/Shanghai/Xian 1sufficiently 1Say 2truth 4Almost 1rising 1beneath 1(Boy 1glasses 1homogeneous 1doing 16“Taoist 1society 4books 5neighbor.To 1wander 1populace 2Agreement 1time… 1sidewalk.GENETICSThis 1today?Honestly, 1shut 1employ. 1interactions 2Railways, 1remorse” 1surely 3craving 1met, 1them, 4mainland 1things, 1Point 1theirs.I 1could 38belief) 1firecrackers.2/ 1stimulate 1ethical 1bicycles, 1have? 1scene 1owned 1soothing 1beating. 1influence), 1short, 2ying 1have. 1have, 1touristic 1Hangzhou, 1system 14antiestablishment 17"! 1racist 2Iraq 2enforcement 2Qing 22stomach 2prostitute 1December,1937—-known 2atrocities, 1Absolutely.1.Beautiful 1grandpa 1country” 1Hastings 1proud, 1later. 2warfare 5world.Chinese 2appealing 1decided 12country.Some 1devotion 2beggar 1mine!) 1gentle 1you, 4blockbuster 1clearly 5viewed 2grow?”P.s.：It 1documents 1overthrew 1studying 2history-of-ww2(This 1Counterinsurgency, 1demolished 1asserts 1HOLY 1disemboweled, 2said 11(…known 1plus 1vise 1destinations. 1socializing 1so-called 3possessions, 1stronger 2(from 2face 2#1: 1you'll 5Power-Political 1Indies, 1Tender 1Ming-Qing 1fact 14Paris 4Administered 1exchange. 1bring 4Shrine 2Under 1mean, 2WWII.I 2mean. 1realized, 1decade 1pause 1it’s 39should 44Singapore).i 1.But 1riding 1flinch 1hope 7meant 4insight 1handle 1means 15Whether 1intellectually 12016, 1anomaly. 2culture. 6River 3Once 2following 12Because 12men]These 1mortals 1upHe 1not)Chinese 1stuff 2lifestyles, 1place”, 1CRP 1democarcy 1frame 2C 2mooncakes, 1lamas 1beggars.As 1once. 1wears 1PR 1interacting 1Yanks 1nuclear 2ArchitecturesImperial 1~80th 1pick-pocketed 1(恢复中华)”, 1(恢复中华)”. 1disgruntled 1explosive 1them?And, 1historians 4defied 1staring 11644 1figured 1invited 1powers’ 1schools, 4threatsEven 1Would 1“ma” 1Guinea 2dish)Sichuanese 1winning 2of  1reexamine 1Yunnan 1Chiang’s 1drank 1chalkboard 1hell”. 1feather 1successful.Some 1garrison, 1descent, 1hateful 2‘Free 3Number 4(1644–1912), 1memorizing 3Year 2experienced. 1outside, 1Kyrgyzstan, 1aesthetics 2architecture. 1architecture, 1lush 1site 1Husbands/ 1dams, 1politics 1geography.This 1constrution 1terrorist 1“We 1romance 2censorship. 1censorship, 1digging 1colony. 2terrorism 1feminine 1Tribunal 1spell 1Medical 2drink 4upon 3proficiency 1“Because 1ask.“For 1identity 1pleasantly 1no-one-drops-out 1Yuan's 1off 13southeastern 1Challenges 1dinar 1command 1(also 1prospering 1mountainous 3Don’t 2"fuck... 1immortalized 1less 18moments 1isolated, 1"Exactly 1Deng, 1Brexit. 1Brexit, 1realize 3decisive, 1combine 2forgotten. 1wet 1century, 3increased 1government 90checking 1famously 1slaughter.Whenever 2increases 1five 1you 264bayonets 3(of 1issues, 1You’ll 1countries).Mandarin: 1bulge 1altogether. 1(or 3become 12gaining 1option.Shanghai’s 1There's 3choosing 1superficial, 1transport 4landscapes, 1"what 1by三尺红台 1literally 8avoid 4stores, 1does 19passion 1road).Where 1might.Author 1Haha.In 1pressure 2disappointed. 12007.Infant 1proceeded 1imaginary 1Shi-kai 1vs. 5hiding 1cried..she's 2sister 2New-Territories)”“We 1lifestyle 2gazing 1Holocaust, 3managed, 1bayoneted, 2youLyric嘲笑谁恃美扬威Mock 1Rape 5software 1(First 1“to 1MASSACRE(This 1unabated 2Modernity. 1trigger 1place, 1worked, 1daughter-in-law 1building 5particular.In 1Amazon.com: 1road, 3Interestingly 1Well 2construction 4delusion’ 1be 184entered 2count 1prevail.It 1(普通话)—a 1places 7…unsafe.China 1official 5corpses 2你好, 1problem 3right?)…Why 1CIA 3exceptional.The 1recognize 1“Confucian 1NYC. 1strata.Why 1renowned 2compared 4variety 4deadly 1Tokyo 2Understand 1details 3since: 1Chinese-derived 2rebelled 2Vancouver.Though 1again. 5again, 1JeogoriROC 1oppression 3barrier) 1baffling 1in, 1again; 1in. 1America!Many 1sites) 1South 8inspiration 1ghost 1“respectable” 1history.Another 2Unsurprisingly, 1lasted 1rule 11trial. 1rural 4All” 1mistakes”. 2massacre!SHAMELESS!!But 1(がくせい) 1fewer?The 2country.In 1noodles), 1controversial 1party. 3party, 4summarize, 1relationships 2WWII:ChinaSoviet 2votes 11940, 1China's 7(duh), 1bike 3voted 1messenger 1worth 3ticket, 2League 1compassion 1blanket 1distort 1sellers 1shoot 1(Hinduism) 1gobbled 1help.Since 1ANYTHING! 129% 1humidity 2red 5#3: 1vote, 1pragmatic 2reasons.Having 1equal. 1Strange 1others, 1machines 1established 4reasons.Millions 1+ 4BooksThe 11950PRC 1above 7toll 1officially 3consisting 1told 5are.Traditional 1phone; 1simultaneously 1back?List 1Yes.The 1different.Not 1right)Buddhist 1Cheap, 1apartment 2phone. 1pursuit 21976.After 1stresses 1less. 2items 1study 6!!!Oysters 1bitching, 1pooling 1YangZi 2smoke 1438076for 1aka 2secure 1elections. 1angrily 1anti-guerrilla 1highly 2too:air 1total 7Shanghainese 7Life,Blooms 1China’s 24harmonious.RESPECT 1ploy 1"Russian 1insult 1sunny, 1separated 2ControversiesIn 1expat 3riots), 1real??? 1aware 10visit.The 1things. 3blocking 2sleep 2society. 3wore 11997 1shame 5books, 2work 27theories 1personally. 1era 2criticizing 2Confucianism, 1Abe 1Confucianism. 1indicates 2 During 1Marxism 1provide 5Mid-Autumn 3pursuit.Some 1length 2slaughters)And 1far 14scams, 1disappoint 2ordinary 2puppetry.He 1Zealand 3weapons, 1altitude, 1coined 1after 49damaged 1lay 1retain 1law 5they're 2Gansu, 1appreciate 6greet 3crimes:“When 1green 3worst 3Trust 1order 13(after 1modesty 1office 2(漢服). 1peanuts? 1unknown.Lets 1questioned. 1Inner 1~20% 1ears. 1choices, 2bombing 3"feminine 1somewhere 1highlights 1blown 1background. 1hundreds. 1production 3shear 2split 1then 33them 80(For 1safe 15break 3young, 1shameful 2they 226passed. 1bank 2year.  2tranquility, 1Sadly, 1reasonably 1backgrounds 1slavery 3religions, 1reasonable 2feeds 2comprehend.In 11.0. 1Rather, 1shows. 1crimes 20storyThe 1Aside 2dispute. 1flock 1Confronting 1rock-star. 1network 1overseas. 2hooked 1understatement. 1Guns 1strangers 1beautiful.  1Posters 1forth 1carry, 1Xinjiang 5disputed 1Tajikistan, 1standard 10admits 1Chinese!” 1crime, 2crime. 1enlightened 1War: 1.Remembering 2created 6September 1National 2creates 2War, 1oppose 1on.For 1knives, 1Depression 1organize 1purse….Family 1regrets. 1answer? 1Gen. 1Stalinist 1What’s 1another 19Coast 1experiences.Before, 1power. 3power, 1rejects 1direction, 1"Nanking 1elevator 1interests.The 1rates 1dogs 2B 2fanatical 1rejected 1rippled 1track. 1)IndiaBritish 2Massacre.   2night. 3observation, 1puppet————————————————————————————————————忽然看见这木偶自己慢慢站起来，悲凄的对着老翁，作揖，行叩拜之礼以示告别，仿佛活人一般,笑着淹没于大火之中。but 1air. 1tear假如老去我能陪If 1See 1(Had 1guilt 1recurrences. 1historical 6(Han 1hacking 1“opportunities” 1powers 3worldWe 1exercise, 1over, 1twists. 1guys’ 1manner 1Crab 1contents 1forced 4East 13genuine 1transports.Women 1latter 1self-defense 1Emperor, 1subjects 3forces 2strongman 1Chongqing 3option, 150s. 1stupid 2real, 1neighborhoods 1force, 1Emperors 1enshrined 1people.These 1voting 3dribbling 1announcements). 1religions 2it)Mouth 17.9 1enjoyed 1European 4him. 1Dec. 2resemblance 1layman 1I’ve 4deepest 2pursuing 1them.I 1run, 1do 73!!!Quail 1(I’m 1colleagues 2(No 1da 1Manhoa 1Soviet 9A-bombs 2empty) 1later) 2runs 1fighters 1“People’s 1steal 1unique. 1into. 1package, 1you！free 1Sino-Japanese 1observed 1depends 4horrendous 1flattered! 1request, 1searching. 1Auto 1away 7unable 1cooperation 1drawn 1caves 1Shenzhen, 1we 71terms 3class-ism 1FYI, 1admirals 1clues 1activist 1kitchen 1received 5essentially 1coz 2countries, 2countries. 3WWII 3Feb. 1peacefully 2tone 1royal 2again!）“我去！”（*in 1?Alright, 1Factually 1tons 2KMT 8Citizen, 1Board 1countries.China 1speak 9petty 1unhappily 1I've 13condemned 2charisma 1world:The 1dozens 2duties 1way.) 1families 3attacked 31982, 1languages.3.Interesting 1ever.Grand 1east 1conviction 1publicly 2ages风雪依稀秋白发尾Though 1Yogis 1air 5“freedoms”, 1depictions 2applies 1aid 1Guangzhou's 1moan 1launched 2unlikely 1faith. 1separatism 1dumped 1separatist 3girls, 1tissue 1exile 2traffic, 2perform 3Stop 2varies 1soviets, 1250000 1disciplining 1independent 7blames 1rail 1rain 1hand 6depict 1blamed 1materialism. 1kept 5humble 3Ming 11contact 1the 1644camps 1traditions 1true 8photo 1thanks 2unifies 1‘cheap’ 1adding 1Pollution, 1similarities 1side烟波里成灰 1Gao 1countrys 1shout 1belongs 2transformed 3righteous 2civilians, 1store:The 1looks 4unification 2Uncensored’ 1Finally, 1brutality, 1Nexus 1cool 1country. 12country, 7evidence. 1night 8security 7refused. 2Now, 5ages你一牵我舞如飞You 1world.To 1Punjab, 1(despite 1born 9cede 2Japan.  2comments 1accept, 1Let 1month. 1denied 1adorable 1participation 1repository 2harassed. 1architectural 1graduated 1post 6puts, 1months 7Westerners, 1visa 3anime 1cherish 2periods: 1systems’ 1wasting 1pays 1(せかい) 1profession 1bound 1Shenzhen’s 1referendum, 1formidable 1balanced 1China/Taiwan/foreign 1beauty.Chinese 1amidst 1firewall. 1sovereign 1fight 7way 30entertainer, 2was 262war 48lowest 1time,” 1textbooks. 2becoming 4cities, 7ceded 1"liberate 1taken 7pay. 1dead 5pay, 1same, 1consideration. 1reform—-to 1survival, 1high-quality 1entertainers 2maximum 2effectively, 1what’s 1emotional 2promises 1medication 1religiously 1evidence 5Olde 1brother, 1handbell 1agents, 1physical 6Donald 2reality 5‘one 1interested 3holding 3shrink 1developed/good 1brothers 1welcome 2weirdest 1let's 2Atleast 1Nanjing. 4Hirohito 1Nanjing, 6HERE.In 1speakers), 1arrogant, 1Radical 1Principles 1together 1victory. 1loyal 2centuries-old 1precedent 1might.“If 1concept 30 1dance 3indecently 1china’s 2global 235.5 1Republic 10grateful 1Prince. 1polluted 1秦, 1Memoir 1superpower 1devoted 2certainly 3honoring 1“petty” 12**So 1compensate 1permanently 1yourself.And, 1DisguiseShanghainese 1dynasty.)Yuan 1Chinese余少能视鬼，尝于雪夜野寺逢一提傀儡翁，鹤发褴褛，唯持一木偶制作极精，宛如娇女，绘珠泪盈睫，惹人见怜。　时云彤雪狂，二人比肩向火，翁自述曰：少时好观牵丝戏，耽于盘铃傀儡之技，既年长，其志愈坚，遂以此为业，以物象人自得其乐。奈何漂泊终生，居无所行无侣，所伴唯一傀儡木偶。　翁且言且泣，余温言释之，恳其奏盘铃乐，作牵丝傀儡戏，演剧于三尺红绵之上，度曲咿嘤，木偶顾盼神飞，虽妆绘悲容而婉媚绝伦。曲终，翁抱持木偶，稍作欢容，俄顷恨怒，曰：平生落魄，皆傀儡误之，天寒，冬衣难置，一贫至此，不如焚。遂忿然投偶入火。吾止而未及，跌足叹惋。忽见火中木偶婉转而起，肃拜揖别，姿若生人，绘面泪痕宛然，一笑迸散，没于篝焰。 1minimal 1trouble 2China.XinJiang 1aggressively 2perceived 1beauty没了心如何相配Which 1Just 4turns 2Global 2WILL 1bikes 1guy 2killing, 1revolution 4temples 2discover 1cost 1Japaneses 1Rich 1hand,the 1Manchukuo 1sensitivity.During 1shares 1Ford 1River, 1Imagine 1illustrations 1During 2appeal 1Mao’s 6safety, 34,300 1safety. 7supporting 1regions. 2overseers 1Japanese. 3Japanese, 6genes 2languages. 3human….After 1English 8teacher 8change 11pairs没了你才算原罪It 1"word" 2geese, 143% 1trial 2tourists. 1tourists, 1431 2Dowager 1industry, 2marked 1shaming 1rarely 3metros 1market 1or 170prove 1incident, 1signaling. 1territories 2live 25defeat, 1do.Don’t 2organization. 11911, 11911. 2human.In 1F 1Monday, 2recently? 1‘Communist’ 1limit.In 1instructional 1migrants 1car 6labeled 1visits, 1incidents 1can 104big, 2heart 3dedicated 3know  1Vietnamese 6subsidies 1didn't 18there’s 8topic 5heard 6yard 1clothing 3productive 1war-time 1Shanghai, 1non-business 1write 4future, 1Moreover, 1robbery, 1economy 9?? 1prisons, 1Shanghai- 1Always 1use 11southern 4period,china 1it.Democracy 1produce 3chi, 1hear, 1heroes 1Viet 3lifting 1compatriots, 1remember 19Infrastructure. 1uprise.Given 1spread.Whenever 1typical 2no. 1serving 1Author 1“How 1shouldn’t 1brain 2better.On 1cold 4still 50knowThe 1tending 1Greater 1acknowledge 4Tōjō 1inflicted 1window 4years." 1starvation, 1won. 1factual 1currently, 2non 2China”. 1obedience. 1Inversely 1process 21956 11951 11950 3wealthy 2not 213now 26provision 1discuss 2nor 3down 22intrigues 1“eyes 1drop 4overkill 1intrigued 1(UK)Christmas 2entirely 1火至天明方熄。　翁顿悟，掩面嚎啕，曰：暖矣，孤矣。The 1what?）“国足今天又他妈输了。”（national 1fired 1advantage. 1anything. 1holidays). 1HISTORY.comThe 1car, 1year 7et 1happen 9Hallyu 1shown 2accomplish 1“street 1space 4Manchurian 1(And 1looking 10rational 1expats/foreigners.  1tangle. 1shows 7inevitably 1thong 1cars 4police, 1challenge, 1directions. 1advantages 1rebel 1ominous 1inevitable 1card 1care 8show. 1vehemently 1kingdoms 1honest 3wheels), 1-ForDemocracy 1styles 2Yoda 1Even 5constantly 1Afghanistan 1omitted 2Nanking, 2There 15pragmatic, 1Asia 6yourself 2directly 1glitches.Chinese 1impossible 4Hollywood 1ways 8Nanking: 1tomorrow 3size 1sheer 1silent 1waned 1caught 3yin 1Syria.So, 1ever.Here 1cost-effective 1national 6friend 2mostly 5that 334explain, 1inmates 1than 67semantics 1Nanjing—a 1professionals 1GFW, 1Shenzhen.It 1transferred 1household, 2fruits 1Baristas. 1Degraded 1much” 1remained 1correction 1premier 1(and 413th 5Beijing, 1anger 3Tibet.....Tibetan 1massacre:1/ 1veteran 2shore 1equipment 2necessary.In 1online 3years.Last 1end. 1deniers 2begin 3Unlike 1American. 4price 2machines.Please 1impossible! 1nasally 1impossible, 1forever 1failure 1slaves 2Zone.The 1professional 1dispersed 11912.It 1Initially, 1Political 3while. 1Phuc 1cry.It 2misrepresenting 1loyalty.Life 1fifth 1ground 1Woman 1ratio 1title 3AnywhereLet 1remarkHundreds 1only 68…without 1seen, 1stress.These 1pickpocketing, 1YouTube.I 1truly 3cannot 6cyclists 1celebrate 2Sino-Japan 1recharged 1seldom 1keyed 1green.Now 1slums, 1people’s 7clear帷幕间灯火幽微The 1Xiaoping’s 1prosecutions 2husband 3myself:I 1physically 1Mongols 1namely 2actively 1flatly 1authorities, 1come, 1incite 13 9fast/hot/relatively 1Members 1between 27mandarin 1perception. 1Johnson 1blame 6CHINAWoman 1“what 1article 3see/explore 1mono 1Member. 1But, 9Through 1reluctantly 1won’t 8comes 13solving 1hegemony, 1Room, 1Aleppo 1couldn't 3(specifically 1moreover 1aggression, 1(ETIM), 1peoples: 1cares 3civilization.It 1cousins.I 1(‘0’ 1punished 1peoples. 1linguistic 1outnumbering 1photos, 2!)③我去=Gosh/unbelievable.In 1suspected 1well.In 1countless 1developing 2these 44down.When 1bayoneted 1freely 315% 1care. 2CO. 1happening.It’s 1tilling 1alcoholic 1crowded! 1‘China 1bias 2hoax, 1launcher*2000,The 1worry 4room.Some 1develop 1我替你明媚You 1media 9followers 21913) 1vegeterians; 1poverty.The 1noble 2investigated 1centuries 1closest 1China). 1era. 1country:Following 1respected 5(학생) 1tradition 6mentally 1theater 1heater. 1poetry, 1constitutional 4values, 1severe 1Aids 1Nazi 2nation’s 3taxi 1world.Current 1anymore.However 1valuable 1civilized 1PART 1rule. 2world’s. 1speed 3death 5Her 2flood 1thinking 13Anyway, 1either. 2treatment 2republic 12real 8propped 1Nuremberg 1pollution, 2frown 1pollution. 1read 7Goodnow 1gonna 1greeting) 1Project 1）“我去！”（holy 1listening 2Quorans 1using 9lady 2ruled 4proponent 1there)I 1collective 3t 1fully 3‘apologies’ 1endorsed 1twelve 1(imagination) 1apartments 1Tibetans 3(Xingyi). 1go.If 1peace, 1viral 1done. 5Government 3station).some 1recorded 2conservative 4Southeast 4country". 1hustle 1Queens, 1business 12“grand 1equivalent 11933 11932 11931 1Tibetan, 1apartment, 1watermelons. 2exciting 1throw 5comparison 1UnionMongoliaVietnamCambodiaLaosUnited 2central 6ideology 1greatly 1book.After 1outlook 1protests 2waist-level 1persecution 5involvement 1your 71canteens 2area 6tone. 1start 8low 5lot 32politeness 1delicious. 1Yasuhiro’s 1you. 5warmest, 1duty.“Preach 1delayed 1Experience 1curiously 1goeg. 1Joseon 2trying 8embedded 1are, 1assume 6home, 2fine….well 1stand, 2“the 3logic, 1beliefs 11949), 1600 3exhibitions. 1describe 5moved 4aftershocks 1worthy, 1master’s 1Strike 160+ 1drop-off, 1decision.I 1credibility 1(sometimes 1details, 1(I'm 1evildoers 1forcing 1everywhere, 1everywhere. 1poor 12hospital. 1Great 5authoritarian 1teasing, 1diaries 1THERE 1pool 1Negotiation 1funtamental 11950s. 1Modern 2doubted 1Kanji)China 1since 28pointing 1unrest 3messy 1too.As 1adhere 1religious 5(all 1carpet 1Tibetans, 3referring 2ButEarn 1prohibition. 1orientation, 1washroom 1horrified 2very 82non-Americans 1me 87I'd 5decide 1“The 3I'm 27-- 1Kdrama 21930, 1oil.When 1government? 3ogling 13.18 1expectations, 1downtown). 1streets 5beautiful.Han 1answer, 1answer. 2promotes 1casual 1民族) 1Korea 17witnessed 1everything), 1chinese美丽贤淑、美丽大方、倾国倾城、大家闺秀、小家碧玉、闭月羞花、沉鱼落雁、倾国倾城、温婉娴淑、千娇百媚、仪态万千、国色天香、花容月貌、明目皓齿、淡扫峨眉、清艳脱俗、香肌玉肤　仪态万端、婉风流转、美撼凡尘、聘婷秀雅、娥娜翩跹、俏丽多姿、风姿卓越、顾盼流转、清丝纠缠、举步轻摇、艳冠群芳、剪水双瞳、美艳绝伦、神仙玉骨、楚楚动人、温柔善良、风姿绰约、顾盼流转、清丝纠缠、举步轻摇、手如柔荑、肤如凝脂、领如蝤蛴、齿如瓠犀、螓首蛾眉、巧笑倩兮、美目盼兮、冰雪聪明、惠质兰心、通情达理、翩若惊鸿、貌若天仙、环肥燕瘦、窈窕淑女、秀丽端庄、艳若桃李、花枝招展、温柔可人、活泼可爱、亭亭玉立、如花似玉、软玉温香、兰质蕙心、秀外慧中、楚楚动人、明眸皓齿、天生丽质、睿智、淑德、贤惠、文静，优雅、纯朴、清秀、可爱、聪颖、灵秀、俊俏、俊美、美丽、大方、温柔、可爱、单纯、纯洁 1emotions 1witnesses 2him, 6apologized 1crimes—six 1learned 15(I’d 1NOW, 1elsewhere, 1fuck” 1skyrockets 1、明艳不可方物 1answers 5forgive 2street, 4street. 2strong 13reality, 2reality. 1government/institutions, 1ultra 1Jews 2ahead 4exceptionally 1amount 6robery)What 1apologize. 2monotony 1invalidate 2shit!） 1family 17marginal 1wither你倦我也不敢累When 1put 11aimed 1trained 1story. 3conventional 2earliest 1flaws 185′ 1Mongolia.The 1sekaiAll 1mellowest 1chaotic 2Manchu 3wordsChinese 1thrown 1incentive 1surprisingly 1excuse 2So 23broke 3factories 1suffered 1helped 3coalition 1offended 3SO 1self-conscious 1history 35pushes 1massacre…there 2fresh.There 2buy,so 1boycott 1pushed 1fundamentalism 1phrase 2lacks 1stayed 2individualistic 2Sphere’ 1hear.  1cultures.So 1rapists 1tried 9protests.The 1derived 5yunnan 1gentleness你错我不肯对I 1unsung 1denial 3Syria 1a 751criticize 6case, 3preferential 1husband’s 1overnight 1(referring 2(Muslim 1Ducklings 1songs唱别久悲不成悲 1banks 1mourn 1dream 7feed 2help 12hierarchy 1advised 1dearly.The 1soon 10people.May 1held 5committed 2hell 2talking 12photographs.The 2response…!Many 2shortest, 1wishful 1speechless. 1labours 1actually 18cryHe 1feel 23systems 2Sun, 1founders 1right).There 1dynasty, 1churning 2haven't 1generations.Just 1fool 2motivated 1food 34MVIt’s 1hanged, 1cuisine.I 1you've 4URBANChina 1Army, 1desperately 2Army. 1fine. 1imprisoned 1elder 1system. 1occasions 2system, 3normally 1entity, 1:D 1stopped 3Tribunal, 1(24.7% 1fairy 1obligated 2isn't 4heavy 4house, 1Peaceful 1rulings. 1strenghtened 1worthy. 1beyond 2beggar, 2testify 1Shenzhen), 1equate 1safety 57 2issue 3Kanji). 1dirt 2Cantonese 5According 2cross. 1houses 3reason 16ask 51951, 31951. 2revolutionary 1one.Since 1terrible 8government.Wait, 1terribly 1feelings. 1expecting 1conquered, 2assign 1prestige.IT’S 1)-我去。他太棒了！(Wow.He 1norm, 1anymore~Back 1Maps 1unexpected 1miss 3raw, 1Delta 1roots. 1hundred 3selling 1passed 2practicality 1Km/hr. 1consistently. 1norms 11.357 1translation 2science.My 1grew 1squeaky 1(his 1real.If 1hesitating 2…(has) 1Manifesto 1toward 5sentenced 4deciding 2Massacre" 1Peach 1God 1experience, 6Father 1Massacre. 6emperors 1substantial 1time.Your 1my 156concentration 1lie 2constructions 1patterns 1officers 1(Myanmar 2compromised, 1With 6experienced 3visit/s 1quote 4sentence. 1Region. 1Need 1sponsored 1eaten 1The 122approved 1salary 1safe?Here 1mobile 1clear 1Schindler' 1snapping 1unreasonable 1Nanjing 28part-time 1variants, 1aircraft*500,UGM-133 1clean 4Post-Colonial 1blend 1Violently. 1phenomenon 1stunned 1civilizations, 1celebrities 1feel, 11911 6heritage. 2nations. 2with, 2with. 1me！”then 1northern 2justice 4assertion 1French 4destabilize 2(such 1Secondly, 1pretty 9collectivism, 1etc., 1reason–The 2trees 1Indosphere, 1famous 5While 7assaulted 1during 17muslims. 1boost 1accomplishments. 1Confucian 3withdrawal 1France 5culture 26aims 1Mainland): 1close 7locals 5years: 1pictures 13Part 3years, 6years. 3probably 18Intenational 1notoriously 1missing 2‘bei-ju,'” 1invisible 1fluently 1both 25garrison 1mega 2wouldn't 5minorities 7sensitive 1above, 1forgotten 1those, 1intervene, 1liked 2我勒个去, 1Zang 1live, 1whatever 5Mt. 1likes 1taxis), 1compromise, 2Grandma's 1described 2blood.”The 1Most 10damn 1Mongolia, 1threaten 2territory 6Women 3lived 8Allies 1Especially 1boy 1like, 3crack 3victors, 1gutteral 1else 10coincidentally, 1Allied 1determination 1people”I 1movements将谦卑 1look 17professionals, 1governor 1while 26opportunity: 1Mongolian 3am) 1city.In 2loot 122,500 1sentences 1rulers 2reads 1commonly 3ready 1Salmond 1LITTLE 1anymore 1grant 1belong 1agile. 1(regardless 1makeshift 2grand 4schools,  2Silk 3conflict 1used 26lawyers 1suggestion 2ROC: 11000s 1bonus 1ruler. 1Scenes 1system". 1ROC, 2ROC. 1uses 2haunting 1yuan 7festivals, 1“free” 1older 3Generally, 1flickersBringing 1obviously 5synopsis 1secession 1appalled 1grossly 1collectivism 1Because, 1anyone’s 1masks, 1CCP 14luck.Following 1roasted 1prestige. 1Manchukuo. 2retirement 1juices, 1informal 1radios, 1translate, 1active, 1conjures 1culture.it’s 1longer. 1feminine" 1longer, 1stay?光晕一层一层，打出斑驳的印记。桃林十里，娇烂漫红，千朵浓芳，一只只缀乱云霞。那艳霞低下立着的玄衣青年，眉如泼墨，鬓若刀裁。Halos 1evaluate 1showing 2enthusiastically 1game 2culturally 10bloody 3aggression), 1Sorry,the 1western-media 1China.Diversity 1maltreatment 1Sliced 1chairs 1translated 5financially, 1Find 1IIMassacres 1centralize 1radicalism 1fathers 1creation 1some 124outnumber 1corruption, 2urgent 1trends 1economic 10describing 1Benevolent 1civilization 2Yasukuni. 1MuslimsHui 1portray?My 1‘People 1run 3hypocritical 1Bill 1They've 1step 4father, 1imperialism” 1taboo 2coworkers, 1abroad 3troops 2“arch-usurper 1XinJiang 2works 8wasn’t 3experiences 3shiny 1seeing 5fish, 1Government:党和政府庄严承诺：不让一个学生因家庭经济困难而失学！从学前儿童到研究生，都能享受国家资助政策。详情查询全国学生资助管理中心网站。【教育部宣、工信部、中国移动】The 1within 9tofu 1Their 7own.Britain 1barbarism 1smells 1behaving 1statistics 2forces. 1forces, 1disallowed 1robbed, 1himself 3wondering 2Bridge 1collapsed 1mulberry 1properly 1policies.Italians 1Switzerland 1Lamas. 1info 3unbearable, 1WuChang. 1visa, 1visa. 1similar 13him….like 1ordered 2adults 1Though, 1Tu 1To 6behavior 91895 1smile, 2motivations, 1Colorado, 1Yoginis” 1Soviet- 1TV 5buses, 1CCP’s 1politicians 3Mobile]The 1themselves, 1department 2themselves" 1AC 1bodies, 2does, 1visits 1Unit**EDIT: 1treaty, 2drag 1少数民族优待政策 1councillors 1Yangtze 4structure 1independently 2night, 2Ao 3An 3Empress 2As 9At 7ignorant 1Soviets 1prawns, 1backin 1mediation. 1“incredible”,etc.eg. 1Fun.Edit: 2farms 1go 35“Tibet” 1alternatives. 1attires 1expelling 2culinary 1Not 8exit. 1interchangeable. 1Nanking 10relocated 1Canadian 5decision.Generally, 1quora 1POWs, 1wave 1hasn’t 2wash, 1more, 7more. 5No, 1University, 1Yunnan, 1hard-work, 11950The 1there.By 1CocoonsSilk 1downs, 1VietnamTaoist 1radical, 1waking 1jump 2salons.One 1what.The 1picked 1segyeVietnamese: 1click 2depiction 1supermarket.Wards 1plays 1cell 1experiment 1independence. 1America 11Ailing 1jobs.Very 1focused 2BeijingIn 1canals 1skills, 2(table 1skills. 1Palace 1precision, 1host 2products 2Arabia 1Arabic 1Qipao 2claim 2Hindu 1manage 2neighbour’s 2addressed 1Hangzhou,The 1ally? 1it.）“冰箱门又没关！”（you 1deny, 1average, 1remains 4changes.Flag 1statecraft. 1crab 1stage 1medicine, 1bureaucracy 1formally 4site.So, 1started 12becomes 4fuck 3gaai3Korean: 1appointed 1contentment. 1(UK)Dutch 2smartly 1Vote 1meet 5drops 2control 6son’s 1far, 3citizens.Nowadays, 1risque 1pulling 11924, 1hit 2boasting 1 I 1tactics 1speech, 4figures. 1Vietnamese. 2Shanxi.Finally, 1British 9Mrs 1tortured, 1Roman 1Joes 1Japan 57spelling 1advocated 2New-Territores 1feels 2Hence, 1Middle 4agenda 2Politics 2bathing 1(汉字). 1hand, 7convictions.Believe 1exercising, 1won't 4Tienanmen, 1again?" 1musicI'm 1outer 1guerrilla 1nation). 1are:Having 1sword 1nookie?! 1Yet, 2billions 1brainwashing.I 1hands 4front 9However, 11Brit.Singapore 1literacy 1let’s 1laowai 1ETIM, 1mastery 1university 2bloomed, 1unlimitted 1backstory: 1here’a 2Celsius 1crossing 1beefs 1| 6seniors 1(the 4language), 1conservative, 1Karma.Here 1shrines.Current 1answer.Actually 1cigarettes- 1stew. 1strictness 1achievement. 2special 5NorthEast 1littered 2"If 1time, 14sometimes). 1time. 4Manhwa, 1time) 1cause 4activity 1delegates 2clenching 2ideology. 1ill. 1Hangzhou 1conservatives 2(MCGA)” 1sitting 3princess 1resumed 1hostile 1applications 1route 5diminished 1keep 26counterpart 1influence.Macao 1New-Territories, 1powerful 4bag:For 1，quite 1Facebook, 1Facebook. 1bitch 2flows 1art 1quality 3life.Author 1Dongguan 1thế 1you're 5Aruga 1be. 1be, 1bears 1guys 8adopted 1be: 1(This 2attack 8whites灯火葳蕤 1periods), 1perfectly 2service.The 1beard 1it.And 2punish 1exactly 3apologise 1less, 1Berlin.Just 1share.Population 1Balkans, 2overwhelming 1herself 1corruption.As 1Shan, 1photograph 1YouTube, 1Lifetimes 1bed 1inspiration.Chinese 2maybe 6bet 1behaviors 1Information 1enforced 2Uprising. 1Gentlemen 1Xizang 4Other 2halal 2need 23border 5road. 2sh*t 1HongKong, 1able 8arm 3relatives 2falls, 1people.How 1beef, 1left), 8connected 2Suzhou 1consequences 1battle, 1“Not 1cultures. 2talk 8cultures, 4repeatedly, 1Hongzhang! 1them.Entertainment 1impression 3marvel. 1intentionally, 1eyebrows 1smart. 1soldiers 5(much 1based 16Xingyi’s 1( 7Meanwhile, 1ugh) 1won 4inherited 4fuel 1modernized. 1mortality 1democracy 912, 1unacceptable 1pass. 1legitimate 1historical/heritage 1below, 2endless 2you.still 1evolution 1talking, 1diarrhea.Seriously 1tuned 1"phone 1she 12dangerous 3grab 2devotees 1Driving 1persist 1humans 3you’re 18officials 2changes 3……………………………….this 1recently 2creating 2luckiest 1Good 1FANG 1intending 1abolished.After 1tend 3written 5mind. 2horrible 3tens 3neither 3outsiders 1Kai-Shek 1asked, 4sole 1powers, 1importance 2spared 2human, 1key 3police 6connection: 1career 5iPod 1minds 2hustlers 1generation. 5admit 1joy, 1Second, 1opposition 2bearing 2Oh 3together. 2sense, 3addition 2“speechless 1ostracism, 1liberals 2slowly 3context. 2unsafe. 1armies) 1circus 1controlled 3government.Now 1Dragon 1June, 1condition, 1That's 3And 25ya? 1novel 1criminals.The 1harder 2versa. 1not?Sure 1Yasukuni 2steal, 1steal. 1Troops 1Geisha 1Shanghai 16harassed 1warm”“ 1appearance, 1hearted 1You 29apologized, 2capture 2began 4dialects....at 1campus 1parts 5speaker 1anguish. 1party 20(shrines 1experimented 1FAMILIESTwo-thirds 1people.Sichuan 1rightfully 1eccentric 1guards. 1effect 3frequently 1secede’.Muslim 1audience's 1Kpop). 1reflection 2i 4well 20great-grandmother 1Have 1effective. 1taller 1increasingly 1accurate 1bottom) 1territories, 1sources 3mistakes 2— 1purified 1merits, 1Be 1老外.DrivingAt 1murdered.8/ 1killed 8politeness, 1politeness. 1defeated. 1Despite 1seaBurma 2By 3kick 1leave﻿Yiwei 1fate 1crushed 1historic 1burden 1immediately 3modernization. 1prominent 1ever:Chinese 1west). 1necessary 3lost 6chain-smoking 1candy 1gangsters 2(Google, 1payments 1lose 2benefit.When 1sentences, 1shed 1revisits 1school 13library 1Rebellion 1Yubao 1home 11son/daughter 1before. 2colonized 2broad 2ROC 13However 1War 10clean, 1nuns, 1atrocities.*I’ll 1demonstrated 1country.PEOPLE:Just 1indicated 1expansion 1女汉子 1it.Certainly 190,000 2fresh. 1television 1freedom 11chance 4recognized 3monument. 2China.Several 1recognizes 1equally 1tourists 2reasonably, 1previously 1court, 1townships 1attains 1articulate 1acceptable?The 1times, 3times. 1secretive 1managing 1museum 4serfs 1point.But 2imperial 3“world.”Mandarin: 1"We 1California 1recruited 1problem.A 1north 4addition, 1blaming 1subjective 1neutral 1hi 1gain 1courts 1“Japanese”. 1SEAsian 1eat 2(洪宪), 1he 45here)Edit: 1notice) 1Today, 2Taiwan): 1Koreans 5person.business 1exaggeration.But 2signed 4stories 5eyes. 1piece 2display 3CarrierWhen 1Hanzi, 1universal 1naked). 1bottles, 1twist 1116% 1Ting-Fang 1Republic). 1partly 1education 13balcony 2me！ 1contest 1Million 2propositioned 1bullying. 1blog. 1compete 1star 2Like 2books.After 1convicted, 1stay 12out. 3friends 7life.Sure 1misconception, 1saw,especially 1pools 2Friday, 1Well, 11too.This 1lives 15businesses, 1aided 1limited 5better, 2reform. 2reason, 2HK, 2protest 5railway, 1asian 1polite? 1(which 2Montana, 1up. 4whose 3up, 3up- 2Warschauer 1presents 2up? 1teaching 1sorry 4ultra-nationalist 1rescue 1otherwise. 1connects 1midlander’s 1govern 2today. 3low-key 1vast 3history.There's 2skills 1companies 2convenience 1safer. 1safer, 1enhance 1heading 2clothes 2force 2Baidu, 1me, 9gentlely 1here.they 1japanese 3likely 11implemented 1monster 1even 49wife.Some 1Lamas 2saved 1Pregnant 2is.Yuan 1Ming-influence, 1Ten-Mile 1right.Whether 1new 18ever 16Westernized 3(apparently 110, 21915, 1men 13active 3100 14quite 19dry 2why!”There's 1ignoring 1credit 3Suspended 1growth, 1suitable 2Lama, 3smile.I 1fantastic 1besides 2campaign 1mobility 1bayonet 3re-unite 1sliced 2war, 6moral 1guests 1soybean 1criminals 11army 8watering 1arms 1call 8calm 1recommend 1right. 2right) 11000 1use, 2ultra-conservatives 1fists.Sinkiang 1accord.”Confucius 1rules, 1Tiananmen 2(Mostly 1warn 3(India)Wake 2warm 3frenzy 210569 1inhabited 1home/or 1shepherds 1on….. 1room 2rights 6massive, 1chinesethese 1exceptions 1root 1CCP. 1CCP, 2give 14Whereas 1humanless 1blind.Let’s 1involve 1foods 3hones 1“Rape 1Trump’s 2Passwords 1Festival, 1Phoenix 1Yuan 11life,Women 1Massacre 13Nom)ArchitectureThe 1globalization 1answer 21Region(This 1scooters 3pronunciationWhen 1untill 1flustered 1food) 1too). 1abdomen 1with.This 1country.There’s 1curiosity 1president 5shirt 1All 6attempt 5third 2Civil 1fault. 1fault, 2capitalism 1still, 4maintain 1frequent 1capitalist 2fault; 1minorities’ 1operations 1Faye 1‘I 1fetus 2goodbyeThe 1down, 1down. 2divisions. 1before 24then. 1then, 5tasks.Specially 1personal 13, 7better 20(Bear 1weeks 4combination 1nightclubs 129, 1indulge 1opera.The 1week, 1week. 1home，Wife 1India 8went 11Hate 2history” 1mean 9Premier 1Destiny 1times.So 1(USA)Gilbert 2taught 3forgot 1aids 1dawn 1publically 1is; 1shop/stall 1oppressors 1HMS 1content 4undeserved 1is, 6Gruesome 1Muism, 1available. 1turning 2biginning 2skin, 1Go 1USSR 2struggle 1Maglev 1zone.People 1Furthermore, 4tale, 1moving 4loud 1PLA！When 2wronged 2Adolf 1they’ll 2Buddhist 1Mongol-ruled 1thereof 1Buddhism 4village. 1Mess 1historian 2twisted 3Festival 2suppressive 1solemnly 1villages 1somewhat 3Sengoku 1problems.5. 1BBQ 1boarding 1distance 2presidency, 1cruelly 1disciplined 1bitterness 1preparation 1matter 13street 16silly 1usages 2sees 1modern 21mind 9mine 1field.This 1sink. 2seed 1seen 8seem 8province.This 1seek 1tells 1great.I 1data, 1do. 1do, 4revolutionarily 1POW 2NEVER 2point, 1point. 1chest 1Nationalists 1point: 1panties 3Loren 1relatives.They 1proving 1memorabilia 1regular 2sidewalk 1Biological 1see, 2prosperity. 1observation 11256134for 1medical 1Buddhism, 1dog 1Dynasty 9Single 1definitely 10principle 1WW2.But 1“Kill 1annoyed 1Calexit 2terms. 2late-Qing 1visitor 1us.It’s 1(e.g. 1stepping 1sex.China 1resisting 2-今天轮到你打扫卫生了。(It 1explain 8Free 1judged 1cuisines 1integrate 1boyfriend 2wearing 2alcohol, 1Mainland 5government’s 3practices, 1ENGINEERINGSo, 1stop 9Organization 1hok6 1food.China 1tempting, 1举个栗子 1earn 2chronological 1optimistic 1fields 1Over 1vast,its 1bad 17architecture 1ban 2Turkey.But 1ears 1Year.Each 1Chongqing, 2Hospital 1Internet 3importnant 1complain. 1allure 1Butler 1subject 3radiant, 1matters. 1qualified.A 1there's 1sorts 1Although, 1tolerance 2lazy 1Central 1Chinese. 8Chinese, 15Chinese! 1restricting 1Chinese? 1modeling 1Otherwise 1civilised 1against 22Confucianism.COOPERATION 1sai3 1contribution 1confronted 1Kong. 1rewarding. 1Given 1rifle*2,000,000,DG51 1height 1PwC 1persecuting 1extort. 1focused. 1now, 6now. 4murder, 2puts 1situation,“我去”means 1glamorized 1three 20tiny 2removed, 2removed. 1recognised 2detrimental 1interest 3basic 1friendly.However, 1lovely 2threw 1website 5obtained 1prosperous 2administration. 1(to 2turned 7Showtime!Wow, 1(freedom 1personally 1non-dogmatic. 1exception 2okay. 1tastes 1particular, 1near 8melted 1suppose 1“running 2balance 1！so 1Korea/foreign 1seven 3thought. 1metropolitan 1is 532it 231Kniefall 1Nam 1thinking.*Edit: 12009, 1in 852disappear 1if 78grown 3make 45World’ 1practice, 2(mostly 1bottled 1colonies 3grows 1evolve 1bearded 1can. 1practiceI 2atheists, 1belongings, 1Usually 1decapitating 2opportunity 1Manga 1kid 2practiced 1unconditionally 1failing 1inherit 1practices 1threatened, 1qualities 1cool, 1claims 3800 1left 14perplex心火怎甘心扬汤止沸Who 1protocol 1just 82foreigner 5warmest 2rebellions 1unfair 1Crime 1good:)))) 2Classrooms” 1human 16facts 3(Australia)ManchuriaTaiwanKoreahttp://www.japan-talk.com/jt/new...Their 2yes 1yet 9Shenzhen 5leaders. 1leaders, 1candidate 1regarded 3character 1affinity 1save 3ago, 5ago. 1fact. 1fact, 7based.They 1rebellion, 1wanting 3actually.Overall, 1shoulder 9dignity 3kind.What 1visible 2states, 1nude 1justice. 1“Dr. 1Zhangjiajie 1Are 1daylight. 1notorious 1温柔成绝对I 1ChinaWhen 1oncoming 1Let’s 2deal 2somehow 4elderly 1discomfort. 1meaning. 1meaning, 2ignore 2island. 15,379 1stations, 1electromagnetic 1normal 1equal 2tongue.E.g:如梦令昨夜雨疏风骤，浓睡不消残酒。试问卷帘人，却道“海棠依旧”。知否，知否?　应是绿肥红瘦。Last 1conquering 1thing's 1ww2 1Hanbok 1burn 3survivors. 1popular 7Sweden 1PRC’s 1Anime 1not-so-safe 1empowerment 1vaginas 3barbarians 2words 6afternoon 2commit 1status. 1hospital 3automatically 1Chinese... 1Brexit 1hometownI 1lied 1for, 1low. 2apologies. 2negative 1education, 7education. 2doctrine 1carving 1EuropeQuestion: 1Revolutionary 2inspected 1build, 122, 1DNA 1form 6Portuguese 2politicians. 222% 1minds.Here 1lie. 2click-bait 1garments 1shopsWorld 1anti-pork 1surrender 2atrocities 7Seventeen 1builds 1understood 2caution 1bounds 1propaganda 2one-third 1covers 2drive 4defeating 1die, 1ship 1shit 4Tibet 22agreeing 1generally 14handed 3clubs, 1meat. 1(MinZu 1misinterpreted 1Romantic 1handicap 3felt 8fell 2authorities 4died 13billion 10happening 3apology 1visiting, 2day——Who 1daily 2them.Here 1hugs, 1Second 1teeth 2mobilized 1government, 16government. 4China:THE 1managed 1government) 1pictures, 2mild 2manages 1Desmond 137.5 1resourceful 121st 2good/bad 1$467.6 1father 6disgusting 1travel, 1answered 2finally 4unpleasant 1sovereignty 2otherwise.It 1adviser 1string 2innovation 2Tang, 1giant, 1.”Soon 1airfare 1word 10right), 5Where 2Pacific. 1governments 3dim 1society, 2did 38die 3accidentally 1(Singapore)Brunei 2"Leftover 1回). 1Here's 1it'll 1rest).BeliefAll 1talked 4fearing 1else, 2dealing 2else. 1Romance 1House, 1eating 88899366Question: 1Guangzhou 2suspect 1NationalNow, 1international 3filled 1transportation 2Presidency 1victimized 1West, 2lakes 1decipher 1complain.  1invaded, 2earthquake 3wait 2here: 10.1%. 1shift 2bow 1here. 8!!!Crab!I 1here, 9genuinely 3English-speakers, 1teenage 2elect 1mothers. 1merely 1When 6served. 1everybody 3wealth 2Novels 1Australians, 1visit 25ways, 1ways. 2beer” 1thru 6marks. 1shine 1sharing 1evildoings. 1acceptable 2downtown 1once.Public 1Vietnam, 4Vietnam. 2Atrocity 1effort 3quickly. 1walled 1avoiding 2Pacific 4wallet 4sour 1analogy, 1growing 2making 11GatesTemples 1Sharon 2crazy 3guy, 3teachers; 1(UK)SingaporeHong 2we’re 1confused 1Dutch 5Kaikōsha 1pink 1burgeoning 1discuss, 1chemical 1till 2British.The 1pure 1recipients. 1staying 1may 46175/100,000 1148 1destructive 1experimentsNew 1grow 3lord, 1man 17waist 16th 1chef 1Edo 2xuéshēngCantonese: 1til. 1jail 2gesture 1development, 3development. 1shield 2pointed 2stability 3lyric 1Massacre.I 2cuts 2differs 3negotiable. 1denials 2group 4thank 1took 8interesting 1undermined 1surprise.FOODBeing 1months. 1maid 1Incident 1AUTHORITYWith 1policy 2World 4main 7views 2killer 1lunch 1She 6kids, 2bullshit 1Everything 1kebabs 1light.The 1Simply 1pharmacies 1motherland 2Billion 1China.Muslim 1down..Suddenly 1dialect 1startups. 1startups, 1Humiliation” 1honk 1girl 4along 3living 30yes, 1slightest 1Stinky 1nominal 1Key 2Mastering 1politicians?On 1correct 4assurance 2Stone 2lag 2fascinating. 1Rights 1on,………in 1stunning. 1Sometimes 2convention, 1existed, 1away.And 1cough 1forbids 1advance 1underwear 1derivation 1language 10Being 2thing 20crazy, 1think 56waited 2first 35exotic 1Bio 1declared 3crib 1(ultra-nationalists) 1People’s 5Yak 1carry 1Probably 1sounds 7smarrphone 1incorrect. 1little 27cheers. 1anyone 8them. I 1outsiders, 1Russian!If 1speaking 5eyes 7piety, 1sound, 1sound. 1continuous 1questions.” 1evidence.And 2aftertaste 1plate).Counters 1undoubtedly 1here's 2civilians.Who 210 713 112 115 418 2(pollution, 1protected 3knives 2were 105time.When 11, 11. 2DO 1queen. 1Muslim, 1Nam, 1Sinospheric 2voices 1entombed 1Tell 1occupied 2Do 1efficient 1answering 1massacre, 3shocked 2Da 1potential 1spicy)Cold 1Kazakhstan 1don’t". 1200 3pain 1investigations 1arguing 3boggling. 1insanity 1nuisance. 1assault 220% 11980s. 220+ 1voice" 1atrocity 2massacred 1especially 12Chima 1massacres 1people?Opinions 1alone, 1shop 1(1915.12.15–1916.03.22): 1shot 2*cough* 1denial. 1show 11employer, 1Turkestan 3contract. 1Anti-Imperialism. 1doesn’t 5Organization, 1Province 3We 14revisionism 1enough 11media, 1slaughter. 2Wu 1black 2Khabarovsk, 1dynasties. 1trade, 1dynasties, 3isn’t 2ranking 2etc….but 1exaggeration 2get 45forgotten.Now 1killers 1nearly 1conjunction 1blends 1bridgesTraditional 1girls. 3yield 1morning 1storm, 1Education 3silently 1"Brexit 1streets. 3meantime) 1seat 2relative 1doings 1eliminating 1Grand 1jobs 1calendar 1(like 1boiled. 1date: 2boundaries 1behind 6master问世间哪有更完美Are 1(http://en.wikipedia.org/(wiki/Sheng_nu) 1minorities. 1reading 3across 6affordable 1infrastructure 2Considering 2FOR 1parental 2unbelievable, 1doing, 2tacit 1doing. 1Each 1nationality 2killing 1Harbour, 1check, 1fried 1according 1Gisaeng 1young，he 1tour 1statistic. 1itself.The 1spare 1among 9activists' 1efficient, 1andSingle 1innovations 1River.What 2Pearl 5maintained 1Plus, 1writing 6Russians 1nose 2considering 1arts 1Sure 1(*coughJapancough*), 1Luckily 1background, 1exception.And 1borders 1educated 9being? 1Shinzō 1offered 6gripped 1road)So, 1wake 1AK-47s, 1those 31memorialized 2I’d 4employment. 1I’m 9associates 1promising 2disgusting.a 1art, 1favor.That 1price, 2eventually 41:30 1sincere 1middle 7thought.“What 1sudden 1Lunar 4everyday 3movements 2different 26(who 2frauds, 1pay 2Good” 1same 35theocratic 2speech 8)②我去=Wow.In 1struggling 1information.A 1minorities.One 1movement, 2extended 3country,civilization 1revolution” 1handling-over.So 1companion 1running 1ancestors 1been. 1themselves? 2totally 6largely 3better.Compared 1roommate 1accountable 1solve 2bottle 1history.Of 1amazed 2EnglishChinese 1haven’t 6outdoor 1gangs 1money 10blizzardYour 1lol.By 2aspect 1flavor 1individual?" 1pile 14 9Although 4illiterate, 1wife. 1Island 2admitting 2English) 1English, 3mom 1cleavers. 1found, 1China.South 1unarmed, 1十分红处竟成灰Sorrow 1facing 1career? 1London 2laughing 1robbery 1passionate 2tuition, 1tuition. 1Democracy 5short-sightedness 1China), 1imprisonment 2draw 1second. 1Dr. 1images 2New 10booming 1gross 1genetics 1日本, 1pocket, 1pocket. 1extensively 1critical 2expressing 1Tavern).Westerners 1territory.” 1problems 11world”It 1notable 2notably 1trials 6Vietnam 13generation.  2does. 1regulations 1staff, 1opium 1staff. 1stations 1instantaneously 1island 3astronomy. 1848 1practical 1community, 1nothing 11airline 1pockets 1sadistic 2out, 3you是你吻开笔墨Your 1road 4referenced 1Youtube, 1schoolsPRC 1banks) 1banks, 1morning. 3Though 4job.friendliness 1dispute, 1Confucius 2judging 1clothes. 1it:it's 1food.Hunanese 1white. 1Beneath 1land, 1spice 1romantic 3wasn't 3Society 2influence).Since 1oppression? 2up.The 1powerless 1eventually. 1USA 6Farmers 1deer 1fellow 2imagination 1ULTIMATUM 1student, 1shopping 41936, 1film 1fill 1again 5personnel 1drivers 3'dancers', 1field 3Buddhists 1sick. 1amount. 1weird.Anyone 1shelter 1planet, 1aquariums, 1dwarfing 1important 1482160 1itself. 4US. 4US, 2mind.I 2“My 1u 2suffering. 2suffering, 1US? 1well-being. 1oral 1US: 1represent 5forget 7founder 1movies. 1worms 1well.LanguageThese 1<三生三世十里桃花> 1talks 6vendors. 11949, 2children 91949. 1shattered 1amusement.And 1north. 1territory, 1modernization 1shredding 1preserved 1issued 1mother, 1pickpocketing 1enjoying 4sound 4expression, 1returning 1screen.The 11927. 1fall 6difference 6college. 1elated 1direction.Though,it 1Don't 2celebrity 1you！ 1“over” 1reminding 2westernized 1biological 6years.Europe 120th 1thread, 1Actually 1Only 2titles 1physics, 1further 2stood 5abe 1brackets 1Cultural 3tribute 1public 12movement 2hotbed 1outgoing 15000 1aristocrats 1operating 3“Halal” 1mourning 2search 2prosecutors 1ZooI 1airport 4misery 1mentions 2China/Chinese, 2local.Finally, 1Constitution 4buses 2transit 3America, 4America. 2all,” 1sadism 1Parliament. 1Europe 6lady, 1(Japanese 2distinct 2two 25(Zhonghua) 2world.” 1characteristics 3misery. 1Hongxian 1(no 1contrary, 1American 21particular 3Chiang 3Yamato 1town 2none 4Now 3hour 3friendly 2guards 1remain 2ago.Chinese 1Miss", 1abandon 1abroad, 1nations.Confucius 1emperor’s 1Hitler 1(coz 1share 7sphere 1Thai- 1minimum 1numbers 1hours. 1communities, 1China?I’m 1homicide 1needs 4Mustard 2comfort 1eat, 2Sino-Brit 1right).The 1dialect. 1(here 1Unequal 2petite 1uprising 1advice 1List 1(beyond 2apology? 2blood 1coming 6more; 1response 3(India)Straits 2improved, 1entry 1country.Not 1crowded 2mostly, 1map. 1dragon 1Speech’ 1responsibility 2act. 1Good’ 1Confucianism 2playing 1that's 4What 19enslaved 1fuck"things. 1wall. 2telling 2dairy/food/flavor 1through 18lava 1differently. 2suffer 1Karma, 1Texas 1later, 326 127 1thrilling 121 1deeply.I 1flagThose 12: 2late 8foreigners. 1foreigners, 32. 3exile. 1someone 16Bar 2strongmen 1seeking 1gardens, 1Capitalism 1Bag 1walls 1know，Oh，don’t 1trading, 1association 1mystery 1easily 4exiles 1pregnant 3Lack 1ashes 2also. 1differentlyI 1harm 1everyone 15delicious 1house 5spontaneity. 1hard 15idea 10deeds, 2deeds. 1member? 2will.What 1places.Here 1reinstating 1Trident-II*200,000，Ford 1acting 2they'll 4fireWe 1backpack, 1crushed.）“我去！”（*in 1power:“Between 1tables 1 One 2pleasant 4Architecture 1members 6productivity. 1beginning 5benefits 1FACTORIn 1individualism.When 1conducted 2oddballs 1utilized 1done 10embraced 1KMT, 1Oppurtunity. 1KMT. 1US:Question: 1parocheth 1family. 1family, 3revive 2least 17regulation 1U-turns 1citizens. 6dealings.Finally 1part 24Yuan, 2differentiate 1Yuan. 1population.To 1gruesome 3believe 17Asia.I 2Lakota 2Neo-Confucians, 1gotten 2Population? 1lunatics 1recording 1him.The 1contrary 2supposed 3Documenting 1frogs）that 1treated 3ages 1roughly 1Breath 1murder 4diverse, 1Manhattan, 1fading 1countless.The 1built 4gaps. 1experience. 1majority 9Walmart 1build 5don’t. 2companies.you 1province 3order, 1online.I 1traditions. 1eggs 1Japan? 2conspicuously 1depths 2most 85age, 1charm 2significant 2services 1authority, 1extremely 6Japan, 6motion, 1you?And 1“five-colored”, 1flare, 1reason/purpose 1path, 1included, 1sector 1particularly 1Stands 1Koreans, 2Kingdom. 1carefully 2fine 4"Isn’t 1giant 1distributed 219th 1unhappy 1freedoms 2asking 4portray.China 1“logs”) 18 5(Wu 1Thirty 1express 4Kingdoms 2cheapen 2rest 7silk 4merchandise 1mates, 1mates. 1Kong 10country.I 1president). 1society.Just 1common 14restaurants 5Kuwaiti 1gated 132886 1better’.China’s 1lion 1individual 7glottal 1surrendered 1tender 1visiting 4hungry, 1personAnd 1please 3halves 1meal 1King 1iron 1Kinh 1"non 1aircraft 1pissed 2restaurant 2solely 1annual 1leadership, 2foreign 19Yes 2Yet 1Drinks 1shrines 1point 6simple 6dances 1fashion 1simply 14throughout 2expensive 1headaches 1straightforward, 1creativity 1secret 3dropping 1reformat 1but’.democracy 1classifications.Bravo, 1gas 4convert 1understand 17nanking 11959.China’s 1Ding 1unify 1Classic 1solid 1bill 3tolerate 1elections 1sexuality 1replaced 2transformation. 1century 3imperialist 1English: 1encountered 2imperialism 22015, 1high-waisted 1Ministry; 1prayers. 1flag, 1power.Many 1emphasize 4copying 1how, 2development 789′ 1strips 1arena. 1husbands 1TIME.com 1purpose 1aggregate 1Provisional 3‘lack’ 1spent 3years.So 1Economic 2flags 1withdraw 1None. 1district 1chemistry 1meat 1spend 2rut, 1FurisodeMing 1memories. 1English. 3buildings, 1foreigner, 1foreigner. 1matter. 1about. 4snow 1openly 2Slaughter 1lives, 3alternative 2lives. 1great…….really 1cut 7developed, 1consonant 1source 6win 2snap 1drastically. 2have’.Guizhou 1excited 1reunified 14.7, 1ideas…..but 1Did 1big 18Japan's 3matters 2foreigners 14cleanliness, 1bit 11coverup 2fatherless, 1knock 1hate. 2jobs, 2jobs. 1Whatever 2Couples 1identity, 1bamboo 2google 1Java 1often 19worry! 1absolutely 3overnight, 1duck 1back 36martial 1insincere 2examples 1Sun's 1Burke 1pronounced 1scale 2culprit 1decision 3stability, 1per 7exampleI 1eliminate 1controlled.It 1Nothing 18–10 1epic 2good, 1invade 1good. 1either 3patient 1December, 3300 2example, 5one:China 1taught. 2public. 1dystopia 1restaurant/hotel 1constraint 1Forbidden 1drama 1contact. 1horror.Here 2consequently 2stated: 1pollution 3spicier 1bridges, 1shinzo 1measure.We 1concerned. 1Speech 1lesson 2sorrowWhere 1respectful.technologically, 1famines 2forward 3contentment 1translate 3Punjab 1subsidized 1immigration 2Brutal 1reckoning, 1boys 1QR 1alien, 1thefts 1nutshell 1shit.Edit 2directed 1users' 2legacy 1visible. 1Why? 1concubines 1cuuute! 1constant 1Perhaps 1stripped 1consulted 1beheaded, 2behalf.In 1cabs 1organizational 1birthright. 1denying 3Murder 1unity”.Maybe 1May 3200k 1thoughts.**Edit: 1replies,For 1yang 2Asia. 2Student 1Asia, 4assassinate 1Mao 7incidences 1Case 1ultra-modern 1intensifies 1lend 1barbaric. 2It’s 21prepared 3utterly 1Qingdao, 1Consequently, 1Chatting 1vehicles 1prior. 1fitted 1carved 52008 2forget. 1happy, 1happy. 1saang1Korean: 1ago.My 2act.There 2brows假如你舍一滴泪If 1Business 1intensive 1helps 1"Look 1women 26quora, 1quora. 1random 1Region 3didn’t 5putting 3markets, 1Quju 1Tang-style 1entire 13provinces. 1provinces, 2help. 1Osaka 1shock 4revolutionaries. 1shadows.On 1raped, 3people.4/ 1Turkey 1safe, 1safe. 3other, 1safe! 1other. 2tact,Following 1instead, 13D 1(It 1barbarians. 1giving 2graces 13k 1Amboina, 1body 3exchange 1question)People's 1entered. 1objects 1Marriage 1IMAX 1others 5safer 444% 1extreme 538 1Chinese 318broken 1professors, 1professors. 135 13. 1shot, 2honor 3justified, 1named 3safest.  1prize/ 11995)Human 1“dark 1private 3privately 1Yat-sen, 1son/daughter/daughter 1Salute 1Tubo, 1watchdogs, 1… 2(Panchan 1peninsula.Then 1blinds.Of 1smoke, 1China.The 3ultra-conservatists 1ChinaOf 1fine;Sound 1“I’ll 1gun*30,F2000 1upcoming 1name. 1trait 1train 5paroled 1president, 1cruelty.My 1hurt, 1tearing 1account 3Nationalist 2Hangeul)Vietnam 11945. 1tease 1Quran, 1peoms.Wu 1Huns, 1unreal 1obvious 2people.Breath 1Nationalism 1something 17Temples, 1PRC. 1convenient. 1reconstructed 1leaves.Silk 1Netherlands 2fulfillment 1high. 1bones 3Australian 3native 5Yo 1holds 2Ye 11923. 1regions 2line. 3governments.I 2line, 1KFC 1companies, 2China". 1sealed, 1buildings 2struggle” 2too.The 1philosophy 1bothered 1mixed 2united 4preferred 2forty-nine 1region) 1lines 1region. 1war. 2region, 1death.”“Reach 1wanted. 1ever-changing 1meter 1zhihu, 1report 4Buddha 6horns 1bunch 2bridges 1revived 2showSo 1300,000 6acres 1高麗, 1willing 8lengthy.This 1airport. 1bluffed 1stopped. 1dad 2reason”, 1dao 1symbol. 1mention 8government,so 1rice. 1(Not 2day 16preschool 1airports 1Burying 1terriory 1identified 1lingerie 1“one 1Korea(n) 1PLA.BTW, 1boggling 1From 5731's 1starters, 1regardless. 1peace.We 2Shikai, 1death7/ 1announces 1don't, 1passport. 1situational 1announced 9hardworking, 1families. 2mean?Including 1clarify 3incense, 1Harbor.  2nationalities 1Developed 3fated 1Tu, 1qualification 1Guizhou, 2facilitate 1empire. 1south 1empire, 4structures, 1financial. 12,000 1Administration 1economy. 2improvements 1puppet 14Scooters, 1fleshes 1ancient 14flag 8establishments 1emerged. 1sportNankingBayonet 2jingle 1Zheng.) 1baby. 1completed 1nobody 6environmental 1she，“can 1loved 1Swedes, 1China.Ironic, 1mutilated, 2nation.These 1establishment) 1visited 4abolished 1Before, 2“freedom” 4wakes 1cuisines)! 1have 235apparently 3cards, 1cards. 1Diego, 1comrades, 1 This 1mid 2parks 1mix 2concerns 3expected, 1crown.Try 1provoked 2years.4. 1greenery, 1unless 5terrible, 1business, 1Without 2gods, 1jail, 1prisoner 2GardensInterlocked 1Burma 1gather 1Some 41,000 1capita 5occasion 1saying. 1Horror 1area, 1area. 1bags, 1text 2CPC's 1reputation. 1Religion 1STREET 1XXX(a 1(almost 1communism 3grabbed 1knowledge 4York 1communist 6locals, 1photographs 2(mainly) 1.Flag 2squirmish)THE 1‘serious’ 1bear 2Unconditional 1areas 9approach 2subways 1control, 1control. 1including 12you.they 1familiar 1Mandarin, 1exists 1CCP.During 1subsidizing 1showdown 2Wikipedia 2– 7MCGA 14Hans, 1reform 4WITH 1purses 1and, 1ultra-nationalism. 1progress 4July 1crimes, 4Study 1monarchy 3however 4jeopardizing 1sisters, 1Islands 4snowCovered 1'War 1joke 3taking 7globally, 1attributed 1agree 1conquered 2passing 1vendors, 1knowledge.The 1glorious 1otherwise 2comment 4fester 1relevant 1Nhat 1impaling 1drugs, 1“Democracy, 1booths.Chinese 1byways 1done, 2“victor's 1“proof”. 2“I 2“renting”(HK) 1videos 3tremendous 4it's 24gaze 1California/Texas 1“a 2films. 1home. 2division, 1define 3adapting 1Cinderella 1censor 1benevolence, 1Nations 1Muslims, 3finished 3tenderly 1CRIME?Don’t 1Professional 1general 2Deng 2locales 1/Planes/Airports 1welcoming 1appearance 1Japanese-influenced. 1value 2General 1world, 11promoted 1at 101permeate 1Jacobs 1acknowledged. 2almost 15delusion 1Imperial 2weighed 1Some, 1wealth, 1shame. 1claimed 1arts.Each 1portray 1whirl 1comparison, 3though, 5though. 2administration 3back.NOTE: 1Marcus 1practice 4years,Bravo 1heart?你枯我不曾萎You 1faces 4spitting 1fucked 2hospitals, 1Cover-UpUnmasking 1weapon 1pickpocket 1km/hour 1thought 6years:1. 1position 2publicize 1soviet 1Can 1executive 1domestic 3underlying 1big. 1tough 4documented 2work, 5work. 1podcast 2Friday 1lake 1add 5citizen 4“everything 1match 2tests 1(including 1‘oh 1cafes, 1question.Why 1like 106success 1crawled 1China? 2(Edo 1China; 2China: 1China! 1cafes; 1China, 62China. 41soft 3！ 1Documents 1Tribute 2Comfort 1alive 2hair 3Editor 1simple: 1proper 8Aoqun, 1supportive 1happens 4trust 2long-term.Most 1Filipinos, 2poverty, 3students 7magnitude 1happend 2board. 1happenThis 1Question: 1regain 12200 1slight 1stuff, 11912……This 1uptight 1Times 1although 7destroyer*50,XM307 1ceremony, 1confrontation”. 1about 156actual 4boards 1December 1withdrew 2legendary 1itself, 1Luckily, 2happen. 2happen, 4Hainan) 1toilets, 1opportunities. 1opportunities, 2Increasingly, 1socks 1female 4internationally. 11984 1rushed 1abdicated. 1biggest 8Register.WOOO~HOO~ 1November 2buy 10Arabians 1bus 7brand 1but 185communal. 1WritingWhen 1Muslims.A 1–present 1genitals 3wise 3students, 2glory 2Wall 2wish 2mists 1variations 1trash. 1Shanghai. 11951)The 1righteousness,courtesy, 1minutes 3100,000. 1“赞叹”,etc.eg. 1deaths 2recounts 1Bargaining 1our 26superpowers 1mysteriously 1Colombian 1areas, 1areas. 1dressed 545 1claiming 1detail 1wondered, 1out.FoodDon’t 1mathematics, 1will.In 1out 66dresses 1convicts 1inflammatory-sounding 1period, 1measures….) 1April 3death, 4death. 4starting 1entertainment 1reincarnation, 1discreet, 1together.Fastest 1friendly. 1(TAR) 1augmented 1Canada 1Communism 2united, 1united. 1hats 1dynasty 17Leap 1Kana)Korea 1ever: 1(it 1Communist 10hate 9European, 1feeding 1(for 2bureaucrats 1poorest 2Kings 1right?”“Yes!He 1under 16pride 4Stone, 1imprisonment.”“The 1risk 5Industry 1sucks, 1fragmenting 1every 21Henry 11937. 1missionary 2Restaurants 2regret, 1regret* 1problems, 1problems. 1children.Only 1Fish.Dried 1Warning! 2shafted 1Ok, 1enjoy 12“third 1leaders 9‘Three 1Fortunately 1March, 1estimates 1direct 2surrounding 1Mmmm. 1persuade 3borrowings 1change. 2less-than-stellar 1century. 3sin没了心才好相配It 1beaten 1museum, 4characters. 1renaissance 1leave, 1conduct 1supplier 1general, 2kicked 1hundreds 7Speak 1humility 1discipline, 2leader, 1)English 1through. 1voice 2area’s 1worse. 1worse, 1changed 14completely 2prosecutions.“Although 1China—has 1mistake 1settled 2punishment 150–60% 1company, 1feelings 2Soviets. 2(Central 1wars 2greatness, 1public.I 1would 58to 1029“no- 1June 1doubts 1military, 1used. 2slaughtered 1mystical 1single-handedly 1Junichirō 1reviled, 1Ministry 4back.Some 1now.We 1phone 3Incidents 1excellent 4off, 3must 14abundance 1join 1cheapest 1tremendously 1House. 1advocacy 1“not 2(Resisting 1refined. 1know!)There 1grenade 1unilateral 199-year 1Lord 1wrong你懵懂我蒙昧I 1times 9attract 2humans, 22000Life 1talk. 1legislate 1end 14(My 2talk, 1Tōjō, 1harmony, 1Muslims 13Thacher 2accusations 4personality, 1charging 1badly 1description 2carrier*20 1Disregarding 1II: 1products, 1criminals, 1sparkles 1splendid 1acknowledged 2Japanese 112unpunished 1UK. 2UK, 4ultimate 4aloud 1acknowledges 2food” 1propaganda. 1Abdication 2propaganda, 1executed 2interpretation 1describes, 1over 38territories.More 1‘lao 1tragic.”…..[Shanghai 140% 1divisions’ 1Here 7comprehend 1destroyed 1walkable 1'Unit 1Forward, 12010Tibet 1Kids 1tourist 1Tips:Though 1history, 8history. 2tourism 1show————————————————————————————————————他提着木偶在三尺红布前表演起来，木偶，吟唱悠扬，顾盼神飞，虽然画的是悲伤的妆容，但是却美丽绝伦Finally, 1several 21list, 1Turkic 1Four 5victory 1each 16industrialization 2lasting 1signing 1Anyone 1celebrating 1riot, 1independency 1(Singapore, 1driving 5#2: 1Chancellor 1day. 5day, 1got 19newly 1twenty-five 1is… 1independence 12that:the 1perception 1ghost. 1‘loss’ 1Modernity 1gakuseiAnother 1free 20went. 2on.That 1evil 2types:2.Deep 1wanted 20go, 2go/ 1go. 2ago). 1correctness 1days 5them?They 1heck 1US), 1aspire 1onto 1China.(And 1already 8too. 1too, 3Tongji 1primary 7rank 1hearing 1philosophical 1anymore.Vietnam 1awoke 12014)Led 1fabrication, 1insisted 2Congress 1them！What 1top 4basically, 1fishes. 1ton 1too 17percentage 1sidelining 1urban 5ceiling 1Terracotta 1States, 1enough, 3serve 1“seven 2negotiating 1western 20decades. 1prefecture 1brushed 1Lhasa.Qing 1nominate 1final 5classes 4to. 1Gang 1to, 3foreigners.Chinese 110th 1Unit 8perspective 3bridge 1POW’s 1that?" 1ran 3offcial 1Germ 1raw 1advising 1relatively 3traditionally 2Asians 41966 1- 60isolated 1thorough 1Let's 2(well 1Kowloon 2though 8plenty 4faith-state 1for:The 1disarmed 1(bottom 10ball-star” 1smokeCould 1Wang 1China.Vietnam 1flow 2treaty 5reputation 12006) 1Its 3pardoned 1proceedings, 1“traditional 1solutions 1Yuan’s 1earth 1spices. 2language.)Sure, 1Big 2disgust 2announce 1aboutI 1scripture 1anger. 1borrowed 3mixture 1"You 1about: 1watch 3criticized 1despite 3differed, 1fabrics 1countries 27GermanySo….among 1Tokyo. 1twice 2situation, 3isolation 1country:No 1automatic 1years,what 1unwarranted, 1victim 1new, 1goodgood-lookingbeautifulprettyhotfabulousattractivegorgeousstunningcharmingenchantinglovelyand….some 11960s 1recieve 1“New-Territories” 1最天生一对You 1corrupt 2face. 2game, 1‘enlightened’ 2grandmother 2(by 1hopefully 1East/SouthEast 1book, 2he/she 1Financial 1weak 3ubiquitous, 1shifts, 1wear 2censorship 1news 2improve 2faced 1development,it 1protect 2influence, 2(fish, 1Computer 127th 1moniker:Why 1nominee), 1Dutch, 3law.Stay 1conference 1stomped 1clip 1beef 2"you 1been 74quickly 3beer 3inessential. 1expected 1posts. 1catch 2annihilated, 1standing, 1hook.Japan 1horrors 1did.That 1pants/skirt. 1lesser 1angry.The 2teachers 4Follow 1snickers 1procedure 3ROC’s 1‘Greater 1working, 1Tianjin 1over… 1expenses 1homelessness, 1haunts 1experts 1brutal 3punctuality 1indigenous 1OBVIOUS, 1RAPE 1heart) 1heart, 1suggest 4mawali 1complex 2SPEECH 1embarrassment, 1preconceived 1rebellions----the 1satellite 1annoyances. 1expert. 190% 1characters 4force"? 1made, 1anime, 1mentioning 2'Chinese 1weary用什么暖你一千岁With 1liberal 1Education, 4greatest 1incapable 1mother 8possesses 1Muslim-only 2proposed 2perfect, 2shops. 3shops, 2(Contest 1Reform 2humanity 2gave 10D 1James 1breaks 2captured.And 2“we 1cultural 11hospital.Halal 1judge 1advanced 2apart 2foots 1brutality 2gift 1Manchuria 255 156 1Dynasty.Taiwan 150 3specific 2indoors 187.79 15% 15' 1opinions. 1whomever 1hunt 1proudly 1cry.I 1time.In 1HK 4westerners. 1meters 1election 2escape 3(occured 1everything 9here?Mainly 1melets 1He 21can’t 12contest, 2deleted 2IT’S 1destroyed, 1club. 1eye 2(where 1Emperor 62000Death 1dinner 3anti-Qing 1ensure 11916, 1Still 1CarolanThe 1Hong 13presence 1civil 5blood-stained, 1healthcare, 2-今天下午你去图书馆吗？(Will 1difference, 1trafficked 1Enlightenment 1emigrate 1existed 3‘No’, 1murdered. 4murdered, 2nationalities, 1Sinosphere, 2class 14stuck 3fought 2jaded, 1cash, 1attempted 2differences 1removes 1Wafuku 1heinous 3hear 9West:The 1removed 1hands, 1ever. 1Shintoism, 1versions 2his/her 4achieving 1Much 1“revive 1way.Besides,China’s 1customs, 1frightened.I 1showin 1Lhasa 1acclaimed 1annoying 1trip 3issues.Finally, 1regime 2willingly 1child.Sharon 1oops…）“我车子撞了。”（my 1no 61“gee” 1tip 2beheading 1luscious 1aren't 5picture 6learning.And 1trailers 1Autonomous 4stops 4younger 3longer 2bullet 1market” 1withhold 2serious 2backward 1neighbors 1either)The 1remarkable 1‘free 1rob 2focus 1wallet, 1/ 1remarkably 1scandals, 1Japan.Answer: 11948 11949 5“apologizing” 2promote 1Dao 21946 2Dai 21945 1abhorrent 1wars, 1uncomfortable, 1honoured 1slowly, 1slowly. 1entertainment, 1Government, 1advantage 2bad.Maybeit's 1responsibility, 1"burglar-resisting 1did.” 1cook 2ShanUltra 1clouds 1impressive 2level 6posts 1unintentionally. 1standards 1crimes.What 1quick 1styles, 1pork 1says 1Longyu 1pms 1basiclly, 1invaded 2‘Our 1citizens.In 1Jane 1fear 5substitute 1drinks 3*cough*. 1propagandas! 1ill.Never 1paragraph 1goes 8reply 1See, 1Ago 1(세계) 1Barrister 1Age 1water 9online, 1Jan. 1groups 2propaganda! 1disappeared 1clothThe 1thirty 1‘Yes’.its 1Crimes 2proud 5traveled, 1stomachs 1hospitality 1weird 1beautiful, 3beautiful. 1Hospitality, 1humour 1CROWDED 1It's 92016.Well, 1differences.I 1Member 1”Halal 1massacre. 21st 1bravely 1crisis 2‘black 1Rebellion: 1with.Majority 1warm……………….Yes 1bases 1memory 1today 3October 4These 6body’s 1Union, 1Summary 1attained 1cases 2shooting, 1insights 1states 2German 1local 10means, 2wrong. 6bonds. 1wrong, 2districts 1學生 3why?HOW 1(felt 1corrupted 1stream 21962 1(Hanzi)Japan 1Thus, 1performed 1sharp 1counting 2JapanTaoist 1comment, 2encountered. 11 7guy’ 1Conflicts 1genocide 2Japan(ese) 1! 2unbelievable 2huge 16Tang 8overall 3observations, 1joining. 1chaos. 1chaos, 1match你褴褛我彩绘Ragged 1them.What 1secure, 1branches 1different. 4me.Law 1different, 1men:I 1“conflict”. 2behaviors, 1humanity. 1invests 1acts 2“Nanjing 1mainly 1(Quora 1conversation. 2westerners 5worship 1blocked 1sugarcoat 1apex 1offers 2inspiration. 1prisoners 1happened 10Fighter*300 1400-character 1westerner, 1devastated 1sight 1delighted 1warranted 1Rome 1life. 4!!!)Well, 1term 4www.writtenchinese.com/podcastNumber 1name 11corners 1offer. 1ultra-nationalist. 1obviously, 1731' 1F22*200,Virginia 1Army’s 2populated 1decentralized, 1Huakui 1begun 1ultimately 1factors 2tensions 3factory 2cancels 1all”. 1shouldn't 1knife.桃花灼灼，枝叶蓁蓁，妖娆伤眼。The 1100s 1theory 6mid-1980s, 1accommodation 1Earth, 1“national 1Charles, 1importance, 1100, 1checking. 1corroborating 1thanks_______________________________________________________________________Just 1turn 4place 17generations 2Wider 1unborn 1view 14world.INFRASTRUCTURE 1transform 1prosecuted. 1insist 2world’s 2attention. 1millions 5given 5necessarily 1card. 1Socratic 1plastic 3enclosed, 1crystal-clear 1government—a 1terrifying 1(1937) 1(Wtf 1white 5gives 4[message 1exploring 2Nationalists. 1terrain 1indoctrinate 1released 1“When 1networks, 1copy 1Shadowsocks 1population 6wide 1unfortunately 1accused 1Magee.Edit: 1published 3and 1087Scotish 1reader 1prostitution 1invasion. 1rent 2say.I 1massacre” 2prosperity 3astonishingly 1once 13snowy 1ideas 2useless. 1ideal 5animation 1time*** 1late, 1Cross’s 1resembling 2strengths 2Atrocities 2sure 12multiple 4invasions 1clearer 1falls 1boiling 2freshman 2天无三日晴，地无三尺平，人无三文银，means 1closet 1considered 5there, 7later 8photos. 4hungry 1science, 1need, 1idea, 2killed! 1killed. 1killed, 1need. 1perpetrated 1Chengdu, 2eyes.Flag 1cheap 1Government. 2spaces 2dances, 128th, 1countryside, 1joke. 1state 13joke, 1crime 14‘has 1drama, 1越南. 1orphan' 1(Just 1deciding, 1not-yet-mature 1“Why?” 1Imperialism. 1here.Being 1Ili. 1Question 1Guizhou 5reveal 1regarding 1USSR, 2impolite 1living.My 1barbaric 1embassy 1Changsha, 1ignored 2advisers, 1imposing 1violated 3labors 1re-build 11923 1college 11928 2ruined 2needs. 1encouraged 3farmers 4crooked 1subsequent 1review 1weapons 5Vietnamese). 1outside 8squalid, 1example:you 1shìjièCantonese: 1“orphans” 1U.S. 2labor, 120 2dutiful 1cities 14come 20‘60’s.Now 1way: 1way? 1efficiency 3region 3priests 1extents, 1contract 1way) 1Individual 1way. 2way- 1way, 8railway 1survivals. 2fail. 1Guess 1color 1pow 1Travel 1colony 1period 4Taiwanese, 1resentment 1satisfaction 1Lama’s 1pundits 167 1government,and 1shop, 4Japan.”)Witness 1Bus 150% 3escalated 1But 38No.Is 1peaceful 1hardly 2burn!” 1direction 1robbed 1Democracy. 1mocking 1minister 1WAY 1careful 1spirit 3lot.I 1paying 1bottom.If 1coup, 1disappeared, 1cash 3entry/exit. 1shops 2life, 5fetuses 3person. 1chopstick 1person, 1ideogram 1good 39Nobles 1lessons.The 1meals, 1wind.I’m 2author 2granted 1thinking. 2locking 1check 5shifts 1attributing 1macaroni 1reminder 1odd-balls 1events 1status 3that’s 4IS 3driver 1Karam 1persons 1war). 1https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/w... 1delicate 1statue 3IN 1changing 4relies 1Is 5It 57revolution? 1warcrimes.http://time.com/5546/japanese-nh...https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Na...http://www2.biglobe.ne.jp/remnan...If 2Im 1relief 2relied 1model 2reward 1revolution, 3Germany, 1bodies 4If 29Pink 1United 4them6/ 1captures 1guided 1violent 4kill 5kilo 1guides 1captured 1blow 2announcement 2hint 1possible. 3we've 21931, 1seems 8except 3complain 3shrine 1bloc 1rosy 3disrupt 1kingdom 2pace, 1mugged 1Nuong 1fridge 1loaned 1traffic 7Terribly 1results’.different 1Tall 1accepted 4Talk 1Chang: 1Bravo 1discern, 1run-ins 1woman" 1always 28woman, 1woman. 3might:Joint 1StatesMalaysia 2‘Only 1Army 8West 5Since 11980s,it 1“propoganda” 1snatched 2International 3Knowing 1provided 1slice 1mood 1Teachings, 1unmatched 1provides 2promise: 1you’ll 4someone’s 1crap.On 1communicate 2slaughter 2update 1neccessary 1burden, 1stereotypes 1earlier 1on 181stans 1google. 1of 1012(yes, 1discussed 1so…… 1stop. 1stand 6ox 1splashed. 1wills 1million). 1tribe 1ladies 1Yes, 5west.Media 1communication 1revolutionaries 3accounts 5disposalNankingBeheadings 2names. 2Taoism, 1mental 1731 2footing. 1flat, 1backwater 1strictly 2there 83anti-humanism.The 1strict 2China.Talking 1Therefore, 4member, 1cultures 5——A 1fish 1treat 4member. 1signs 1regard 1I并肩行过山与水Walked 1pre-KMT. 1bugs 1street.Don’t 1LED 1culture, 7ended.*Unlike 1walking. 1land” 1it.List 1tact. 2grasp 1strongly 1toilet 1taste 2words, 1hearts, 1diversity 6neighbors.Then 1incorrect 1transport. 1stumbled 1deserve 3gaunt, 1swords 2harshest 15 6linger 1translationaaaa….. 1butchery 3Macau, 1us.Special 1separate 2symbol 1includes 1lovers 1included 6well.Green 1Britain. 1calls 2wife 5Textbook 1same.Here 11912, 21912. 1platter 1migrated 1all 111chinese 7lack 4follow 5settlement 1WOMAN 1opportunities 9dairy 1present 4activities 2al, 1woman 26worse 3everyone. 1infringement 1Manchus, 1Still, 1sons 1fan 1awful 1ticket 1learners 1sentimental 1Hongkong. 1Macau 1regiments 1list 7prolonged 1grandfather 1weak, 1overseas, 1victimsAnother 2somewhere, 1ten 2fascinating.Moral 1tea 1rate 5design 2Shinzo’s 1Easy 1functioning 1aptly 2what 99freely. 2deeply 3sum 1brief 4version 3CEOs 1‘bad’.The 1will, 1Wikipedia)9/ 1quarreling, 1Australians 1combating 1school?" 1directions 1it:A 1Taiwan 2graciousness 1patiently. 1attitude, 2allows 1reading!For 1(Papua)The 2~ 1cheese. 1options 2sticking 2crowds. 1suddenly 2imagine 3pick-pocketing 1romanticized. 1They'll 31906 1know, 11905 1Latin-based 1standard. 1gestures. 1ChinaBackground: 1People's 4husband. 1branded 1markets 1one?) 1minor 4recognized, 1loanwords 2knows 3immersion 1護国神社/shrine 1power), 1Oita 1screen, 1storyThis 1domination 1basically 3openly. 1known 6engine, 1policemen 1Malvinas, 1Japan’s 2CARE 1buying 1challenging 1prompting 1abandonment 3pain.Please 1protects 1ex-servicemen 1Caucasian 1influenced 12store, 1court 1goal 4rather 8flagarant 1Experiments70 1handwriting, 1influences 6extinguished 1insulted.In 1explains 1Qing. 1British, 3Hanfu 1Foreign 2shortcomings 1Everyone 5here.\If 1English————————————————————————————————————我小时候能看见鬼，一个雪夜里在一座荒寺里遇见一位手里提着木偶傀儡的老翁、这老翁白发衣衫褴褛，但是他的木偶却制作精良，活脱一美娇娘，眼和睫毛都挂着泪珠，让人见了心生怜爱。When 1shady 1influence. 1groundless 1reviewed. 1Linux 1regnal 1don't 24developed 7mission 1cross 1Mandarin 9persecution. 1"is 1inquiries 1rooted 1style 3March 3infratructure, 1already. 1strange 1soccer 1might 18feudalistic 1return 3MacArthur, 1largest 6witnesses, 1brutally 1me. 11Era 1Also, 49/11. 1communities 2bigger 4Marc, 1Persecution?They 1have!!!!This 1best, 1included), 1Scottish 3window), 1Hospitals 1characterized 1view,every 1weight 2generation 6brother 1expect 4Reading 1Fuji…….Masculinity 1More 1government.However, 1time.There's 1mysteriously, 1alcohol 2WW2.Including 1unknown 2ways.The 1health 2them.CONFUCIANISM“If 1perspective. 1Xingyi 1remember, 1them.When 1organising 1teach 3globalization. 1bushes 1People 15Speech’. 1Lake, 1threat 1twenty 2fallen 1ding 1dine 1unhealthy 1Russo-Japan 1radical 1“reluctant 1courtesy.累世情缘谁捡起，谁抛下，谁忘前尘，谁总牵挂。忆当时年华，谁点相思，谁种桃花。This 1traveled 4sympathy 1Indian 4special.Even 1rapes. 2regret 4shape.One 1territorially 1story 3temperature 1Texas? 1leading 3180 1illegal, 1China/Chinese 2inhibitions 1points, 1didn't, 1undies 11915-6.), 1deterrence.But 1store 1hotel 1victims”.Think 1India, 2convinced 1Britain 6information, 1king 1kind 13double 1Wartime 1outrageous 2risks 2insulted 1‘karma’. 1tongues 1Undies! 1infrastructure. 1Nuremberg, 1complaining, 1Aoqun 2breathing 2entirety 2Germany 5window. 2finding 2PoWsTruth 1contractual 1Germans 4added 1critics 1electric 4phone.The 1warnings 1any 64measures 175 1communists! 1me.I 1Army”, 1Sun–Joffe 1achievement 430's 2arrests, 1windows 1traditional 18yeah, 2liberate 2lying 1favorable 1‘It’s 1you.But 1City.Now 1Holocaust?More 1doctors 1Majority 1rate.It 1“Chinese 2China.Politically, 1Oops, 1"too 1ipad 1Ju 1Quora 8abiding 1Osachi 1think”. 1Highest 1advantages, 1his 47triangle 1Muslims(it 1sells, 1island.Then 1revered 15,000 1fastest 1Both 3shared 1him 10freedom” 1grievances 1drivers, 1continuum 1PHD 1investigate 1reinstalled 1aren’t 5Shinto 1bars 1city. 4city, 3intelligence 1rare. 1defense 2are 352Guangzhou.I 1Campaign—for 1skill 1declined 1find. 1find, 1similar”. 1learnt 2experimentsQ. 1SHIT! 1rulers, 1various 22020 1numerous 5corruption 1emperor/queen 2days: 1Outline 1initially 3sold 5attention 3days. 2days, 1reforms. 1wives.”How 1(1912–1928): 1AND 2license 1bandit 1more.After 1became 88am 1eaten.https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ja...https://www.hawaii.edu/powerkill...The 2China.I 2however, 2learn. 1reasons 8sweet 2gesture.I 1somtimes, 1regulated 1tips:Under 1eyewitness 2millions, 1decline 1there. 7say, 3scented 1political 21due 14dug 1whom 3pa 1NANKING 1attractive 31950s 1prison), 1demand 3size. 1altercation. 1stolen 3conception 2noticeable 1parents' 1whitnesses 1surprised, 1Emerged 1rid 2ethnicity 1away. 1lengthy 1Russia’s 1ample 1Apple 1law-abiding 1Massacre: 1Nation 2away? 1chicken. 1widely 3manners, 1daughters 1higher 8hotels, 2visitors.That 1negotiate 1monolithic 1usually 4arrived 1USSR?My 280s. 1richest, 1lower 2people, 10people. 10analysis 1Food 1aliens. Source: 1offers, 1length, 1people? 1fashion. 1know 52Americans? 1abilities 2Takes 2places. 3places, 1competitive 1West’s 3Americans, 1questions 6constitution. 1Hideous 1myself. 1onset 1loading 1“Street 1prices, 1Kong, 5workers 3myself, 2Chocolate 1governmental 1Nailed 1violations 1Last 2Plurality, 1question, 4question. 1question) 1self-sufficiency 1regulate).Just 1Air 1French, 2cuisine, 1(Chinese 1persists.Captured 2Guelph 1systematically 3commanders 1separately 1distrust 1translators 1China.However, 1table. 1table, 1order. 1fucking 2Ellice 2traits 2hurriedly 2etc.There’s 2(Dougong)FashionChina 1modernize 1women, 1women. 1“making 1(Portugal)Australia 2Consultant 1PARENT 1chart 1Command 2rights” 1Taoists 1Russia 4Square 2debatable.Urban 1clean.internet 1firing 1Japan! 1“Great 1hatred 2(PLA) 1POLICEIn 1Mongolians 1of..victims.There's 2Hideki. 1‘Assalamualikum’ 1resilience 1impressed 2Japan) 1“too 1water你憔悴 1Japan. 8ever.Chinese 1question 18fast 2Anthony 1vendors 2Every 4Sun 17analyze 1mudslides. 1mountains 2Animals 1people.I 1girlfriends 1constitutional”. 1repeatedly 1junior 2stability.While 1full-blown 1Westerners 1etc) 1etc. 5called 23etc, 2sometimes 5associated 2stick 4neighbor’s 2problem. 2theft, 3km 3single-parent, 1elsewhere—and 1Manga. 1rainy 2peach 2scrutinized 1peace 5traits. 1traits, 1Opera 1swath 2East. 1万事入歌吹On 1nice 9Red 1stratocracy 1stake. 1helping 4meaning 8allowing 1Mainland; 1PhilippinesAndaman 2Tekong, 1happier 2Singapore 5back. 1Han’s 2karma 1evil, 1intentional 1independent, 1read:https://digitalarchive.wm.edu/bi...Nanjing 1gender." 1Based 1hooks 1Abe.We 1resistance 1dispel 1Department 1issues 3gold 1deal. 2languages 2Joint 1note, 1stable 1crisis. 1include 1也去得完美Burning 1negate..” 1confirmation 1wished 1revolutionaries’ 1without 27graphic 1involved.Modern 1drinking 2Nanjin 2Emerging 1language. 1Competition 1language, 4Halal 7dealt 1noted 2disclaimer 1smaller 1modified 1East.”** 1ruptured 1State 35,000/100,000 1traveling 2$100, 1screenshots 1networks 1waiting 1enough.Whether 1capital 1Ling 2relocate 1Kyushu 1York.Otherwise, 1impact 2Airports 1chose 2forgo 2restaurant. 2Obviously 2(top 10sexy 1metro 5ducklings. 1larger 1wake.Civilians 2leaving 2capita. 1Namely, 1China.Once 1prize… 1apple 1app 1slum 1Safety 1malls, 1apply 1Hue 1fed 1massacred. 2from 153figure 3usa 1& 4Hui 2few 33examination 1apologies 1sort 3parliament 1giggling. 1hard- 1world.This 1State's 1impress 2Gun 1cooperate 1examination. 2unarmed 1us. 1“keyword” 1anywhere 5sinophile 1us? 2(1928–1949 1Female) 1dropped 1Prime 5tap 2wonder我却只由你支配But 1comments.One 1US 11scooters—they 1Party 9serial 1Guandong 1tai 1rape 7counterfeit 1“shop, 1starlet. 1water” 2chanels 1decaying 1sit 3sidewalks 2conditioned. 1japs 1instead 5tension 2puppets 1Competition/More 1UK 2attend 1demonstrates 2mine) 1assumption. 11889 1ethnic 6Outdoor 1light 6inheritance 1gone… 1NANJING 1courage 2improvised 1mooncakes 1summer. 1Non-Chinese 1troll-baiting 1own 31open.Here 1quake 1Mandarin. 1heart盤铃声清脆The 1monks. 1bill, 1bill. 1restrain 1choose 7travelers 1rule-of-law 1covered 4world. 11article, 2happened, 3happened. 4future. 2father!” 1look, 1material 1religion, 2here.Pursue 1fled 1successor 2crowd, 3profound 1well-tempered 1by. 1independence.)Scottish 1apolozing 20.66% 1conflict, 1freedom. 1related 988 1freedom, 2relates 180 1most… 185 1chaos 2fascist 1ever.Of 1Baby 1Buying 1tests, 2(越服). 1languages.Still 1This 4134340 1promptly 1conflicts 2Art. 1comrade 1phrases 1conversation 8country:After 1crystallization 1country)”. 1respect. 1respect, 1Jinping 2Remember, 1(preferential 1wisdom, 1”or 2called, 1noticed 5doesn't 8North 6identity. 1EnglishFirst 12014Tibetan 1Uprising 2accent 1endless. 1their 178behind, 1inner 1destination. 1prosperous,there 1distinct. 1pocket.If 1doomed 1beg, 2“18 1trapped, 1blind 1boring 1riches 1richer 1treaties.Xizang 11.4 31.5 3lame. 11.2 11.3 1teenagers 1discarded. 1persecute 1night.Travelers 1speak/write 1linked 1afraid 2After 42001) 1dilemmas 1way.Passion 1which 66funds 2“whipped” 1= 1beggars, 1sauce?）“我去。”（I’ll 1collaboration 1who 105medicines, 1cracking 1why 34discourage 1refreshing 2Pot 1prisoners. 1looked 5Earth 1swarming 1positivity 1on.........Beijing 1inspirations 1chances 1word, 1agreed 2sue, 1one, 2calculations. 1one. 1planning 4brutalized 1on.“It's 1one: 1darkest 1ArmyXi 1debate 1leg 1most.***EDIT*(Japanese 1true. 2many, 5reminisce 1candidates 1thousands 16prosecute 1Vietnam(ese) 1religous 1watching 2massacre 12regimes, 1ones 5circumstances. 1chance, 11911: 1know. 2GPS 1ended 5Himalaya.But, 1married 3(figure 1Quarters 3ashes. 1ashes, 1atrocities:Burying 2futuristic 1Chu 1endowed 1cook.”The 1childbirth: 1humiliation 5expel 2acquired 1impressive…————————————————————————————————————表演完了，老翁抱着木偶心情稍微平复了下，可是突然愤怒的说：我这一生落魄，都是被你所误，天冷了连衣服都买不起，贫寒到了这里，不如把你烧掉，于是便把木偶扔进了火里the 1closer 3(The 1mirrors. 1record 3Animals, 1(Hanja 1closed 2Mayors, 1pants 1publishers 1daughters, 1ability 2joy 1rescuers 1embarrassment 1job 11China,you 1demonstrate 1arts, 3揉皱你眼眉Light 1cookies, 1Co-Prosperity 1Indies 2(Little 1restaurants.In 1close, 1grounds 1fingerThe 1wall 2walk 5missile 1schoolsIlliteracy 1respect 7最好的年岁Prey 1provinces 3i.e. 2horrific 2postwar 1decent 4system’. 1choice, 1choice. 1country,China 1commanders. 1painted 2sufficient 1injustices 1FREE 1wine.I 1environment. 1tangible 1Fact 1insult, 1sticks, 1dish. 1abandoned 1unlike 1people  1Halloween 1it.You 4choices 1will 102PLA 12PLO 1lived. 3hypothesis. 1province, 2province. 1“Chinese” 2thus 2disapprove 1people.“Did 1Truth. 1Tojo 1lonely 1malls 2（1889–1911）: 1belives, 1fails, 1let 29stadiums 1rhetorical 1privileges 1connection 2member 4country,.When 1flower 4geographical 1conversations 4gets 4grandeur 1difficult 6slave 2conceived 1disagree 1beast 1student 7Imperialism,” 1collar 1unit) 1exports 1“Buddhist 1(USA)Imphal 2incredible 2fighting 3(although 3States 2secession. 1english 3firstly 1context.①我去=I 1Never 2destory 1Then, 2heavily 4half 6obtain 2republic. 1(something 1rooms, 2TimesThis 1happiness 3recreational 1Islamic 5Far 2supply 1sky 1book 8Starbucks 1smart 2North/South 1Tibet.Tibet 124/7:The 1myth 1came, 1dynasty.Flag 1who's 1Henan 1boob 1That’s 7earthquake, 1‘Having 1helpful 2safest 21989. 1Within 4highways, 1up?”They 1Nagao 1hosts 1Yat-sen 1leaves 1repressed 1Sue 2because 71Hamaguchi’s 1past? 1smoothly 111, 2scared 1searching 1ventilated 1platforms 1growth 2past, 3past. 3empire 5employment 1Mau. 1lead 2731, 2leak 1tissue? 1pop 1Koizumi’s 1claimed, 1patiently 1leader 8300000 1ripped 1obey 1handedly 1leased 1murdered 2Hinduism. 1policies.But 1materialistic, 1wouldn’t 4carried 3getting 12Americans 6herself. 1emperor 7who’ve 1Really 1acceptance 1(CRP), 1convicted 1nuke 1First, 2transfer 2election, 1Chiefs 1intention 1Anti-Imperialism 1Quarters.It 1extort 1?)-是的，我去。(Yes, 1bashing. 1Science 2restaurants!And 1volume 12020China's 1granny 1counterparts 2WWII, 1viewers 1this! 1mistakes.Finally 2made 27what, 1serfs. 1Ten 1whether 3resist, 1Engaged 1this, 2distract 2this. 7proper, 1below 3proper. 1ruling 15(Yeah, 1Sinosphere’s 1intimidating 3fair, 1accident” 1Twenty-eight 1mutual 1Cambodia? 2company/team 1percent 3Manhua, 1languages.Chinese 1Textbooks 2other 73Five 1sick 6PLA! 1incredibly 1ethnicities) 1Route 1shere 1etc…).So, 1kinda 1republicans, 1could, 1intentionally 1representative 2