
I have been living in China for a little over 1.5 years and I have understood much of the much secretive and claimed ‘Communist’ Political system that I have to accept, globally, people only have stereotypes about. In these 1.5 years, My most preferred ice-breaker with people I meet for the first time, is their political opinions towards the government. Sometimes, It can backfire but I have known the boundaries of its sensitivity.During my experience here, I have talked with many students, working professionals, CEOs of a few companies to even a few Baristas. One common feeling which remains same in each of these interactions is the sheer positivity towards their government.Wait, What?I have been to 20+ countries in over 5 continents and the political perception of people towards their government intrigues me. I have had such conversations with many, all over the world. But, I haven’t experienced as many people being positive about their government as in China. So, This comes as a shock to many of my friends overseas. Some, even call it brainwashing.I read more about it & I discovered that India & China are leading the Global Trust Levels in Business and Government. You can check it out HERE.In many of my conversations with my friends overseas, It is common for many of them to openly criticize their government and its policies. Most of these conversations just end with, either ‘I am sick and tired of this system’ or ‘the next government will be better’.China’s political system remains a global controversy & It was important for me to understand the reasons behind it. So, I decided to write down some of my experiences.Before, I move on, I have a disclaimer - This is a neutral perspective coming from a Global Citizen, not an individual of 1 specific country. And, I have one request, try more to understand than to be understood. For once. I did the same and have been doing the same for over 1.5 years.Last Month, I saw many of my social media feeds going viral over Donald Trump’s victory. I think the topic of ‘Our Political System :o itself, for us or for some specific people’ has become even more important and urgent topic to talk about. Against the popular perceptions, the chinese political model has taken my interest to new heights. Here are some of its highlights -ForDemocracy or No Democracy - The biggest myth of the chinese the same in many countries. The much acclaimed ‘Largest Democracy in the World’ - India, has the same system where people vote for the member of parliament who in the end choose the prime minister of the country (the equivalent of the Chinese president). The point is - It’s democracy. Yes, It can be questioned. But, on a scale of ‘Yes’ or ‘No’, it’s a ‘Yes’.its political system - ‘It’s not democracy’. Well, it’s wrong. People in China do vote for their local councillors who in the end are supposed to choose the bigger leaders in the political arena. It is true that many people don’t know about this process and how it works as the process is not transparent and some people just don’t care. It’s also true that a layman can’t vote to choose the president of the country. ButEarn a voting right - If you want to play a role in the National Politics The Communist party. It’s important to understand the ‘one party system’. People need to be a party member in order to vote for the Chinese President.party i.e. or vote for the Chinese president. Then, you have to be a Chinese Communist party member. China is a Democracy but has only oneSingle Party System - Yes, ito a single party rule. But, wait, Singapore has a Single party rule too since no other political party or coalition of parties has been successful in winning enough votes to form a government. An extremely efficient democracy based on popular perceptions. So, One party ruling the country is not unique. And, China is not an exception here.Being a party member - The next question is, how to be a party member? In order to be a party member, a person needs to be influential enough to earn a right to vote in the presidential elections. Although, the exact number remains to be a secret but I read it online that the Communist Party of China has over 87.79 Million Members (24.7% Female) till June 2016.Well, that was the Chinese Political system that I have understood till now. But the important part is, What is my opinion about it? So, here are my experiences when I talk with people about it.Democracy or No Democracy - In one of my conversations with Terry, A Bar Tender in Beijing who had won many awards for his work. He learnt Bar tending to decide the result of the elections but in reality they don’t. Look at what they did, They did Brexit and now are suffering. Democracy works in a Board Room, in an office when a company/team is deciding, basically within a group of 10 people or so, deciding something about their work since the team is supposed to work in one direction but not a country". Well, he proved me wrong in the conversation of ‘People having a say in deciding the election results’.different in reality it’s not even 0.1%. Let’s look at a UK, when I was studying there, UK has a population of 60+ million, when they vote, they think their vote will make a matters but them believe in this delusion that their vote vote making from a school in the UK. He says "'Democracy is a delusion’ because people are made to believe (by the media, current government) that they have a say in the bigger political system. But, in reality, they don’t". He gave me some data, he said "You are Indian, right? What’s India’s Population? Really big, right? How many people do you have? 1 billion or so? Tell me, how 1 person in 1 billion people can have a say in the political system which has over a billion people. You don’t. You are just made to believe and asked toEarn a voting right - In a recent conversation with one of my colleagues Charles, he said "We grow up in a world where we are told that education is everything. The higher you study the better your future is or the more successful you are going to be. Now, let’s combine democracy with it. In this case, people who have won a noble prize/ A scientist/ A person with a PHD are supposed to be the most successful people. Can you equate them with a person who never been to a school?" My answer was no. He replies "Exactly but’.democracy what happens in China". Well, he proved me wrong too in the conversation of ‘Only People make the decision in a thats that’s what democracy does. You see, everyone has only 1 Vote in a Democracy. How can we argue that a person who is not even educated will have enough decision making ability to vote for the right person. How can you treat them equal. It’s not possible. That’s why you got to earn a right to vote by proving your ability to vote andSingle Party System - In a recent conversation with Marc, one of my friends who lives in my apartment, we were talking about Brexit. He said, "Brexit is a joke. First they always a long term plan. That’s the reasons China has grown so much in the last 30 years." Well, he proved me wrong on the topic of ‘Having multiple parties in a political system’ too. a) and the new government cancels the plans of the previous government? But, In China, there is democarcy of global concept means that tomorrow it can have more space for more people. The government wants to do that. But, if there was a second political party then they will come here and not let it happen. It stops the economic growth and a country’s overall growth. What if tomorrow the government changes (referring to homeless but it because the opposition parties will lose out on their vote banks if the bill is passed. You just can’t move on in a multi-party system". He was referring to the Gun Rights Bill in the US House. "Look at a China, you see that building (referring to a 45 floor building from the window), tomorrow you may see a higher building there. That higher building doesn’t mean that the people living there are now going to be enough but things will move on, and won’t be stopped. Look at the US, the government works for years and years to make a bill and then the opposition party rejects it. Not because the bill wasn’t good Atleast voted and then they realized, Oops, we did wrong. Now, can we vote again?" He was referring to the survey of more than 50% of people wanting to vote again on Brexit, in the UK. He went on saying "If there is one party then they will do what they think is right. Plus, there is nobody else to oppose it.Being a Party Member - During a casual meet up with some of my friends from the previous company I used to work for, they started talking about one of our colleagues who recently became a Chinese Communist Party Member. I asked "Isn’t it unfair that only limited people have a right to vote?" Well, that turned out to be a trigger to have a 3 hours long conversation. I asked them, how do you exactly become a party member? One of them replies,For some reason, Quora Editor gives me problems to write long answers. You can check the original post here - https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/w...
This is just a stream of thought response based on my experiences this summer. I had a great time, but I like to analyze things and was actively looking for differences.I traveled to Nanjing this summer and stayed for just short of a month. Other than finding the humidity unbearable, I was fascinated by the mix of old world culture and futuristic society. In some ways with the street vendors and the open markets I felt like I was back in the 17th century, but everyone has smart phones.Most of the buildings are new, but not well maintained (except for the nice shiny downtown). Kids played outside like I did backin the 1980s. Everyone where t shirts with English writing on them which they probably don’t understand.The more urban centers feel like something out of minority report or blade runner but with less dystopia and much more materialism. Capitalism is the name of the game here. From the street side food sellers to of course the large enterprises. The worst service came from state controlled places, everyone else was always eager to get the sale no matter what.The pollution wasn’t as terrible as I had expected, but I’m sure it has been worse. There are no rules of the road, at least not enforced - and the right of way goes to cars, the Scooters, then bicycles, and finally pedestrians. But at least they warn you. I haven’t decided if that chaos results in better drivers or worse, but I decided it was safest to look in all directions everywhere when walking because the sidewalks are as likely to have scooters as the bike lanes (much bigger and separated from the main road).Where I was, I might not see another white person for days. I was quite conscious of it. It was intimidating and exhilarating, everyone tried to say hello in English, several times they wanted to get a photograph with me.Law enforcement was very local and comment, but felt more like unarmed security guards. Not intimidating and generally let everyone mind there own business - not authoritarian at all. I did see some police or guards with AK-47s, but that was only once.Public transit was amazing - buses, subways, trains. Easy to use, frequent and though crowded, they seemed the best way to get around.the shear number of KFC restaurants. The Chinese love their fried chicken. Starbucks is common too, but just as expensive as in the US. Most of the restaurants are local mom and pa shops. i was aware the food in China is nothing like the Chinese food in the west. I think I had more tofu than rice. It was good, but my western stomachs could not tolerate the idea of tripe.As for food - most of it is fresh. Even Walmart had live animals (fish, frogs）that you can buy for food. Drinks are room temperature or warmer, it is looked at as being barbaric and unhealthy to drink cold drinks by most people I encountered. The cold soft drinks were still warm for my taste. Chocolate is very limited - mostly just snickers bars.Shopping in malls was similar to America, but there is way more staff. It is like it was before the vast cuts for efficiency in the 80s. The prosperity is very visible. The way things are sold is different. Groceries that are sold by weight are weighed at one of the many stations in the store, instead of the til. Buying clothing didn’t seem so different. At least they were air conditioned. 38 degrees Celsius and 85 percent humidity are not pleasant for a Canadian such as myself. Interestingly enough, when entering these AC palaces of survival, the doors are large thing plastic strips that you just separate like vertical blinds.Of course you can’t visit a city in China without talking about the crowds. Yes it is crowded, but where I was it was never such that I was frustrated. Also, being taller than most people, I could easily see over everyone's heads. There is a very obvious difference between younger generation that have only know prosperity - more western in appearance, more materialistic, willing to hold hands, than with the older generations who grew up in villages and received little education. Their appearance and health seems very different. One beggar women actually grabbed my arm aggressively expecting money. Violently. It was weird.Anyone who could afford to buy a home several years ago when they were dirt cheap, may own several now - and they sell for a huge amount. There is a lot of hidden wealth - it was like what I would have expected from the gold rush days.There are so many more things. It was my first chance to travel overseas. I plan on going back. The people were nice, the speech does sound aggressive - it is not, just the nature of the language sound. I went out for dinner with others often and they were all exceptionally accommodating and friendly. Oh yeah, and Canadian dollars go really far there. 30 dollars got three of us a nice dinner in a decent restaurant in downtown Shanghai.I definitely noticed a more pronounced class-ism though. Not by culture or race, but on education and family status. It seemed heavily ingrained in the culture - a certain disrespect for those of lower education such as farmers or vendors. It’s probably changing - some of those old farmers are pretty wealthy - sold their farms for a lot, and now just sell watermelons. Oh yeah, so many watermelons. Cheap, delicious. Mmmm. Stinky Tofu - smells like shit - tastes great.I felt much safer there than anywhere else I have lived. At night, I never felt like that shady person was planning on stealing my wallet, or going to rob me. Their just seems to be less desperation, and harmony is a strong part of the culture. There were some places that had a bit more of a slum like feel, but not so intimidating as Hastings in Vancouver.Though there is plenty more, I will leave by mentioning the great firewall. It was annoying. The people there are well aware of it. They do complain. They complain about the government openly. They have as many beefs as we in the west, but the tremendous growth in prosperity and the culture gives them less incentive to put up a fight. There is definitely propaganda. On the level of nationalism we see in the US. They think they know about the outside world as well as most Americans who haven’t traveled abroad think they do. Their knowledge is just as incorrect. They know about Mao’s Great Leap Forward, Cultural revolution, Tienanmen, but don’t bring it up, and some thought it was all justified, others think it was terrible, and destroyed much of their heritage. If anything - in Nanjing, people really don’t like the Japanese government, and I can’t blame them considering what happened.That’s enough.(edited for spelling mistakes - I typed the entire thing on my ipad ugh)
Author with the statue of well known artist in the West Lake, Hangzhou, ChinaBackground: I am Canadian citizen and soon in a few years it be close to 50 years in this country, I am from the east Indian heritage. I have had worked in the Canadian dairy/food/flavor industry from managerial to executive positions. I had a good run in this profession for about 30 years and took very early retirement to chase my own dream in another line of work and it has been 15 years and hopefully I keep counting for a long time.In addition I have two master’s degrees one from u of Punjab India in dairy science and the other from u of Guelph Canada, in food science.My Chinese connection: I was born in a small town in Indian region of Punjab, our primary school teacher used to tell us that our neighbor China is very civilized country, in fact when most of the world was living in caves they were studying astronomy. They invented several things which contributed to the advancement of the world.This fired my brain (imagination) and sowed the seed about China/Chinese, also being Indian due to Buddhism and neighbor we saw China very friendly and very good country in the mid 50s. Our relationship with China became sour after 1962 conflict, and China then was very closed country, visa was impossible, and travelling from India was not a joke though my family was reasonably okay. Regardless, my teacher described the word picture and from a tender age of 5 used to imagine the beauty and very nice country of our neighbors.Then I migrated to Canada, but my dream did not die, and then in Canada I had nothing but positive interactions with Chinese, as my professors, class mates, coworkers, neighbors, friends, reports and now business dealings.Finally I made my first and then second trip and now several are in the planning to go back to China. My ultimate goal is to see/explore this country from one end to the other, so far my health allows it, I want to keep exploring this great country,civilization and people.I am very thankful to Chinese authorities to give 10 years visa without any restriction on visits, with maximum stay of 6 months. My Canadian citizenship might have helped to grant such a nice visa, also my Nexus status might have contributed to positive decision.I am law abiding citizen: when in Rome do as Romans do, I am standing, in Tienanmen square, however I was very scared I had heard that security is very tight in there. Regardless, I was free to move around with total freedom. No one bothered me, and I had very nice visit to the Forbidden City.Now the answer to the Question: Simply breath taking beautiful, unbelievable mega country with no substitute on the earth for me. Salute to China and Chinese for such a huge leap. It is totally different what media had played and the impression people have, in my books not even close what so ever. I am no fear to go back again and again, and even live there. My teacher 60 years ago or so was not wrong, he was in fact very conservative, in firing my imagination of this great country.I started with very positive attitude towards China and Chinese, and I was totally blown away the with greatness, politeness, cleanliness, discipline, personal safety, law and order and shear grandeur of land mass and huge population. I already had in my mind but after the visit I am 100 percent decided that my grand kids must learn Mandarin, visit the country several times, and see the length, breadth and height of this continued civilization of over 5000 years. They must learn from it all positive things of hard work, discipline, fine arts, architecture, above all one of the best food in the world. One life may not be enough to try all the cuisine, variety and food culture of China, therefore they should start very early. What more tribute I can give to this great country and people that I wanted to enroll my American born grand kids, with endless choices to live and study anywhere they want, but if I had a say, I want them to go to school in China at least for a few years, where they must learn first hand, what is called hard work and studies, and ying yang of the proper balance in life.Sure China/Chinese have problems but who does not?Sure China has mega problems which country does not but I am very sure China/Chinese have a long history fighting and solving their problems, they have resilience and come through. I know I know I know, I will hear ‘ freedom of speech, slave labor, poor quality, pollution, still lot of poverty, dirty wash rooms, people spitting on the road, ……………………………….this list goes on….. sorry not to mention Google and Facebook, are not available there, but they will just fine without those two luxuries in life, I learned to live without it, and did just fine….well may be a little withdrawal symptoms in the beginning and got over it. Well, Beijing roasted duck and dim sum helped a lot sooth that pain.Please let us check our own back yard first are we as squeaky clean as we portray?My answer to all those : I have lived here in the west soon it be 50 years, and let us check our own back yard, in my view we will find lot of things which are not as glorious as we portray.China has seen lot of ups and downs, such as Mongolian and Manchurian regimes, some of the modern time injustices which included, physical , financial, respect, and humiliation and lose lot of wealth, it is called 100 years of humiliation which included losing HK, opium wars, favorable settlement to other countries , after the fall of The Last Emperor, one visit to Nanjing museum will open your eyes. Well guys now the Dragon is wake and it is not imaginary anymore, as Phoenix has risen from ashes. Say Hello(nihoma) to the new very powerful guy on the street in modern times, he was very powerful in the ancient time, but he is back now.We could think about poverty, slums, homelessness, corruption, frauds, drive by shooting, drugs, sex scandals, and the list goes on,………in the west also. Is democracy that great…….really ?? if it is, the question should be: will it work for massive country in land mass and population in China? let the political pundits decide….I may have my ideas…..but they are not qualified.A word of caution to myself:I decided long time ago, that I will look only positive things in people, living and non living things, write about it so that I may leave some legacy for my grand kids, or who so ever find some merit in it.You want to visit China : please go with very positive attitude, leave the pre conceived ideas in your own country and you will only see beauty in everything (well almost in everything), but no one is perfect, let us say “ Glass is more full than empty) and as the old saying goes wear green glasses you will see everything green.Now let us start with changed impressions after the visit one by one:China is very safe country:After the visit/s based on my observations, experience, and confirmation by my host who is born and brought up Suzhou guy, China is literally free of violent crimes, petty thefts and other low level crimes may be there but I was not too concerned. I saw young girls working in the night shifts by themselves, and walking freely in the middle of night to their home/or night shifts, travelling in the public transports.Women are power houses working shoulder to shoulder with men:I have seen women involved in every walk of life, they are handling the baby in the crib and watching the small shop/stall at the same time with flare, grace and politeness. Bargaining like a very wise small business person, at the airport they are sitting at customs, immigration and other official duties, handling the business without getting flustered with total politeness and respect. To me it looked like most likely Chinese respect their women from heart, I did not see any sign of disrespect or looks. I saw hundreds of school girls dressed in school dresses with load of books on their back more heavy than their tiny body’s could carry, showed me that Chinese are very supportive of their daughters for going to school. In my view China has become so powerful because the women are sharing heavy burden of house hold and outside jobs.Very healthy, smartly dressed teenage school girls, enjoying equal opportunities to get education.Tiny adorable kids have equal opportunities to enjoy field trips and educationWomen working shoulder to shoulder with men in every walks of life,Women are power houses in China, they are working shoulder to shoulder with men.Women are power houses they seem to be very hard working and productive in the progress of China.Once you visit China you realize it is not homogeneous country:No all Chinese are not same, there are 56 recognized minorities with their own culture and main majority is called Huns, they make 90 percent but there there are further classifications.Bravo, still they all live in relative harmony ( at least I have not heard, any mass scale and riots), Sure there may be some issues with some ethnic groups, and I under no circumstances will make a comment, because I do not have any real knowledge of the issues, or qualification to say.I visited famous Muslim Quarters in Xian and found hustle bustle and tremendous amount of life.Author and his wife Sue visited world famous Muslim Quarters in Xian they found the market very nice, tourists and locals were shopping and eating and walking through the streets. These muslims are settled in the area for about 1000 years,Bravo Chinese and China. These Muslim Chinese are called Hue people of China.Muslim Quarters or Street as it is called, in fact there may 100s or 1000s of restaurants and snack shopsWorld famous Muslim Quarters.It is not Beijing and it not Shanghai, the biggest city in China, it is Breath taking city Chongqing, I found out on this trip, it has over 30 million people.Breath taking Chongqing, sky line, Yangtze River flow with all its might.Author with his wife enjoying a moment of Chongqing beauty.Chinese natural beauty can knock as they say anyone’s socks off ( at least they did mine) some of the natural beauty will stay with me for ever: Part 1, as we go I will post more spell bound places.Here are some natural beauty of this country:Following three pictures are taken by the author on the Coast line of Yangtze river between Chongqing and Shanghai.Who Says Chinese do not smile, that is a myth, when you go there you will find they are real people ( well almost all of them) they smile a lot.I know this is very sensitive topic to discuss, but for me it is very important to shed more light on this misconception, Religion in China.I have heard before going to China, that most of the Chinese are atheists, well I was pleasantly surprised, in fact most of the Chinese have found real meaning of the religion and God, because most of them talk about Karma, reincarnation, honesty, hard work, no theft, family values and good deeds. To me they found the ultimate truth they do not have to go any religious place to learn anymore.However what I saw the devotion of some devotees in Buddhist temples it knocked me over, I will not be the same.Here are some pictures of Grand Buddha of Ling Shan, this is 88 meter Buddha statue the largest statue of my lord, and other is bathing of baby Buddha ceremony, I never ever seen anything like this, I and my wife sue visited this temple two times still not enough, I could stay there for ever.Grand Buddha and Baby Buddha of Ling ShanUltra modern state of the art mass transportation at reasonable prices.I never ever realized length breadth of their subway systems in Shanghai subway lines are becoming world model, and who can compete with this monster speed of 431 Km/hr. Here pictures of this train, which covers 30 km in 8 minutes at a reasonable price, these are real pictures taken by my wife Sue and I in Shanghai.China’s pride and joy, Maglev train, which attains maximum speed of 431 km/hour and covers 30 km in 8 minutes down town Shanghai to the airport. Well done China/Chinese, fastest train in the world.Chinese love and affinity for gardens, beautiful landscapes, greenery, water falls, lakes , lush trees and tranquility, are praise worthy, and I learned lot of lessons.The west lake Hangzhou,The country is humming with manufacturing activity and as you see ship loads of finished products, raw material traffic, produce and other goods are moving.A great lesson for me in the hard work, devotion and determination.Ship load of new cars being transported via Yangtze River.Truck and trailers are humming the national highways with raw, finished and produce through ultra modern highways and toll booths.Chinese have total mastery of foods, they know arts, science and business end of the food industry ( in my view Chinese did to food industry what Henry Ford did to Auto industry)Chinese have now the world monopoly of this industry, they have cut down lot of middle men which is a major factor to cut down the cost of prepared food that it does not make sense to cook at home any more. Chinese food has taken over the world by storm, reasons fast/hot/relatively healthy/ meet every pocket from man in the street to the emperor/queen of a country,.When in China you will never go hungry, there is food for every one with a few yuan in his/her pocket, Chinese can feed an emperor/queen and man in the street with a few yuan in his/her pocket. If you are hungry in China is has to an extreme bad luck.Following is a snap shot of some of the places where author and his lovely wife ate, including sitting on the streets of Beijing/Shanghai/Xian and eating it some of the most delicious foods in the world.Chinese street food has mind boggling choices, Chinese food vendors are hustlers ( in a good way) they are determined to make you buy their food.China was the world leader and in my view will stay world leader in Silk production for ever:Chinese history proves it China was the world leader in silk production and that is why ancient Silk Route was developed, after these visits in my mind China will keep this monopoly for ever.Here are some pictures of some steps to Silk production and show room.Some steps to produce world class silk in China, silk worms feeding on mulberry leaves.Silk CocoonsSilk show room in BeijingIn my view most of the Chinese people are very hard working, strong will to live, and I strongly believe, they have found true God through Karma.Here are some pictures of their resilience, will power, most of them very happy, content with cards fate dealt them and they have found true happiness of contentment. This motivated me to work more harder and it recharged my batteries.Rather than bitching, complaining, and finding bad ways to make a living, these are the true “ Karam Yogis and Yoginis” which my scripture described in the holy book of The Gita, (Hinduism) FYI, Buddhism is off shoot of Hinduism. Lord Buddha was born Hindu Prince. I saw that spirit where ever I traveled, great work ethics in their blood per sure ( for most of them, exceptions are and will be there)I observed that most of the Chinese people are very physically active, and in good physical shape.One of the most impressive things was their dances, in the parks, and I believe it is a good exercise, socializing and getting out your stress.These are my general observation, Chinese people are very proud, some may have physical handicap but their self pride is in tact,Following two pictures are great source of inspiration to me, I class them entertainers and not beggars, they my personal inspiration. Bravo hats off to your dignity , pride and this will linger in my mind for ever.Chinese people are too proud to beg, they may have physical handicap but they spirit and dignity is in tact. I do not class him beggar, I class him, an entertainer, and my inspiration.Chinese people are too proud to beg, they may have physical handicap but they spirit and dignity is in tact. I do not class him beggar, I class him, an entertainer, and my inspiration.Chinese seniors are respected and taken good care off, most of them will die in the arms of a grand son/daughter or loving son/daughter/daughter in law.Stay tuned more to come until then : Ding ding ho,
The more I learn about China, the more I realize I don’t know and never will know. That being said, I still have a clearer insight on life in China than I did when I first got here three year ago.Chinese LanguageEverywhere you travel, the dialect is different. While the nation shares a common written language, there is a huge disconnect with spoken language among all Chinese. Every province, and in some circumstances even every city, has its own spoken dialect. The only way for some Chinese to communicate is through written communication since they often don’t understand each others‘ Chinese. That’s why there’s a need for Mandarin (普通话)—a standard language that unifies all of China.As a foreigner in China, Chinese people don’t expect you to be able to speak Chinese. Of course, if you do speak Chinese, even just a bit, they’ll be elated to hear that you’re making an effort to learn about and integrate into Chinese culture. Study for a little while and you’ll blow the minds of locals, especially in smaller and rural areas. It’s quite fun to have a conversation with an older Chinese man or woman because they seem so stoked to be speaking with a 老外.DrivingAt first when I arrived in China the driving looked like absolute chaos. It still does, but I’m not surprised by anything anymore. Driving on the wrong side of the road in front of police officers, making U-turns right when oncoming traffic is heading your way, changing lanes without looking or signaling. It’s all the norm, so other drivers know to look out for it.People use their horns liberally, and nobody gets easily offended by anything. In the States, people take driving way too personally. Chinese drive slowly, but they cut everybody off and honk at each other and nobody thinks twice about it. If someone cuts you off, it’s not their fault; it’s your fault. You allowed enough space in front of you for them to pass. That’s the driving mentality. Everyone plays by the same messy rules, so it works out.FoodDon’t be afraid to try street food. I’ve eaten tons of Chinese street food and I haven’t fallen ill. The only time I got sick was when I accidentally drank tap water, resulting in a two day fit of explosive diarrhea.Seriously though, eating the food of this country is one of the best parts of the immersion here. If you miss out on that, you’re missing out on an integral part of what it means to visit or live in China. There is so much variety in the food that I miss it so badly when I leave this country.Jaded ForeignersSad to say, but many foreigners who visit China don’t really like Chinese food, complain about air pollution, blab about ways that the west is way better at this and that, etc. The expat community here is a bit jaded, especially the ones who’ve been here for a few years or more. My advice: don’t listen to foreigners who moan about China; they’re just dealing with some internal personal issues in the wrong way, by taking it out on the Middle Kingdom.ConclusionThese are just my opinions. I’m not an expert. I’m just a guy who lives here. Thanks for reading.
Oh boy ! This question is special.Even before visiting china, I knew China wasn't just a suppressive communist regime with child labours in giant factories. But the media wouldn't portray it otherwise.It took a lot many trips to the embassy to get me a travel visa but every single trip was worth it.And here's a little secret the Chinese wouldn't let you in on.“It's the most beautiful country in the world”It surprises me is how little they promote tourism internationally. All one pictures of when thinking of China is the Great Wall or the Terracotta Army. But guess what, I didn't visit either. All the places I’d been to were full of domestic tourists and I stuck out like the odd one almost everywhere. (I'm not complaining though, but more in that later) I only got a month’s single visit visa. And I spent all of it in the southern part of China. So let me give you a brief account of my amazing experience in this mystical country.PEOPLE:Just mentioning that people are kind would be such a gross understatement. People are very warm and always greet you with a smile (Not just the formal touristic greet but the genuine humble smile)I was always short for change while traveling and there wasn't once an occasion when some passerby didn't pause to help me. And the help wasn't just instructional or with giving me a change. A lot many of them just put their money, got me a ticket, handed it to me and left with a smile.I didn't have the change to get into a bus in Guangzhou once and was putting in 10 yuan instead but the bus driver stopped me and put in his own money instead, asked me to just settle down.When I was Changsha, I didn't know the metro route and was struggling to figure out with the route map. A woman hurriedly came to me and asked her young son to help me out. He was a school student, probably still learning English. With the little that he could, he stood there, looking into my Apple Maps travel route suggestion and keyed in those details into his phone and started searching. It took him a good 10 minutes to help me sort out the route but he made sure (despite the language barrier) that I got the travel route right. When they proceeded to leave, the mother gripped her son’s shoulder as a sign of appreciation for his help. I could see the humility in her eyes and I couldn't have been more humbled by her gesture.I went to a makeshift food outlet in Shenzhen run by a family (the family probably lived in the establishment) simply coz they endorsed “Halal” on their board. It was a Friday afternoon and I could bravely order a beef stew. The order ran up to 30 yuan. While I waited for my order, the chef pointed her children to say ‘Assalamualikum’ (Muslim greeting) to me. I found this amusing as the kids looked at me with a gaze and surprise and anguish. I extended my hand to greet them and they reluctantly did. Although there were no grounds of communication, I improvised on Google translate and had a good conversation with them. They were Hui Muslim family running a makeshift restaurant. The women ran the kitchen while the men waited and kept the books.After our talk, I wanted to tip big and pulled out my wallet to pay. But they flatly refused. They said, it being a Friday, they wanted to do me good as I'm far away from home. Their gesture moved me.I pulled out my wallet and hurriedly handed the kid a 20 Kuwaiti dinar bill. I told them it would be a memorabilia from a visitor and I'd always remember them in my prayers. Looking at the small designation bill, they didn't protest much. (Little did they know!)There are several other P2P stories about how awesome Chinese are to their guests but I guess you get the picture.NOTE: The Chinese police deserve a special mention as they're the warmest towards a foreigner while being dead strict against their own citizens. (Had a first hand experience when I jaywalked on a busy road)So, if you're planning on visiting China, expect the warmest of people there and keep your heart open.Here are a few pictures for a good measure.We became good friends (coz he spoke English) and I kinda would've been lost in Zhangjiajie without him. He explained a lot of historical and cultural facts from here which otherwise would've lost on me. The tourist guides make shit up (his words not mine!) and he gave me a detailed account of the area’s geography.This woman was delighted to see a ‘black guy’ amidst the mix and just wanted to click a picture for memories. I can't even remember the number of times people walked up to me asking to click pictures (felt like a celebrity !!!)Well, that was about some of the people. Now let's get down to the one thing that caught me by surprise.FOODBeing a Muslim, I had very few culinary options, although there's no complaining about the wide variety of food this country has to offer. Then, being an Indian I'm too spoilt for food options but over here, they were a step ahead of us.Special mention for the Hunanese (Boy ! Don't they cook amazing food) cuisine.I couldn't have asked for better food than what I got in China. Even though I had to stick to fish and prawns, I'd indulge in other food as soon as I could find a restaurant serving Halal food.Hunanese Fish.Dried fishes. (It was quite spicy)Cold Mutton pieces with peanuts? (I’m sorry I forgot the name of the dish)Sichuanese Mutton Pot (with sprouts and a ton of other spices. I guess they had some bamboo in there as well)Spicy Crab (There's no civilised way of eating this. My hands were dirty as I crushed the crustacean in my mouth and my nose ran like flowing river coz of the spices. With my mouth and nose dribbling with juices, I gobbled every last bit of it)Mouth watering anyone ?Alright, here, how about I give you some street food !!!Quail eggs !!!Oysters !!!Crab!I wish I could taste the deer kebabs and I had a strong craving for Yak burgers but my religious duties held me back.NOTE: Chinese fruits deserve a special mention here. Fruits in China are the cheapest in the world. I mean, 2 yuan for a kilo of apple cheap. If you're into fruits, your daily food expenses would drop drastically.So, that was about the food. Let me fill you in on another important factor. And I guess this is probably one aspect the Chinese are leaps and bounds ahead of the rest of the world.INFRASTRUCTURE AND ENGINEERINGSo, you know most of the stuff that you buy comes from China. Well, ‘cheap’ isn't the only reason that companies flock there. There's incredible innovation in Chinese society even for the most basic of tasks.Specially their Civil Engineering accomplishments. They've built some of the most amazing dams, star gazing structures, bridges, aquariums, Opera House, Temples, Tall buildings, water canals - You name it.And then you have the Infrastructure. The infrastructure is second to none in the world. I was amazed at the number of bullet trains they run, their precision, punctuality and over all service.The overnight trains too are almost always on time. Are clean, well ventilated and are damn cheap. (Europe could take some lessons here)Edit: This is going to be a lengthy answer I started writing on a whim. Need more time to frame it well. (Thanks for the appreciation in the meantime)