
Absolutely.1.Beautiful WritingWhen you fall in love with Chinese handwriting, these characters are endowed with magic power.Many people have practiced Chinese hard-tipped calligraphy since they were young.Like English, there are many different types:2.Deep meaning but with few wordsChinese is renowned for not expressing their ideas in a direct way, actually because it is related to their mother tongue.E.g:如梦令昨夜雨疏风骤，浓睡不消残酒。试问卷帘人，却道“海棠依旧”。知否，知否?　应是绿肥红瘦。Last night the strong wind blew with a rain fine;Sound sleep did not dispel the aftertaste of wine.I ask the maid rolling up the screen.The same crab apple，”says she，“can be seen.”“But don’t you know，Oh，don’t you knowThe red should languish and the green should grow?”P.s.：It kind of damage the artistic conception when it is translated into other languages.3.Interesting pronunciationWhen language learners start to learn Chinese, homophone will become a big problem. Furthermore, like Japanese, when same character combine with others, it will change the tone.
Chinese is the crystallization of the splendid culture developed continuously for over 5,000 years. As China grows stronger, more and more foreigners would like to learn Chinese and Chinese culture. Actually as a Chinese, I cannot say Chinese is the most beautiful language in the world which may look so arrogant, but there is no doubt that it can must be one of the most beautiful languages.Chinese possesses many advantages over other languages. Written Chinese is based on a set of ideogram characters. From a simple word one may obtain a wealth of information about its hidden meaning, evolution history and related phrases. Historians can decipher the damaged ancient characters carved on ox hones but no such achievement could be obtained with Latin-based languages. To express a given idea, the Chinese version is always the shortest, most accurate and most effective. Moreover, Chinese kids learn Chinese by memorizing patterns or funny pictures which stimulate curiosity and imagination. What＇s more, in some ways, Chinese is also easy to learn. Many foreigners speak Chinese fluently after a few years of learning.And I would like to take a TV drama that is popular these days as an example to show how broad and profound Chinese is. If you have learned Chinese, you can feel the difference in artistic conception after translated into English and some sentences will be lengthy.This drama, which is adapted from a same name novel called <三生三世十里桃花> and in English it is called ‘Life after Life,Blooms over Blooms’. And if you translate it word by word, it is called ‘Three Lifetimes and Ten-Mile Peach Blossoms’.我自是百般推脱，他自是千般盛情。I of course, did my best to excuse myself, while he, naturally, pressed on with all graciousness and courtesy.累世情缘谁捡起，谁抛下，谁忘前尘，谁总牵挂。忆当时年华，谁点相思，谁种桃花。This fated love of forever and a day——Who has picked it up? Who has thrown it away? Who has forgotten it all? Who yearns for it to stay?光晕一层一层，打出斑驳的印记。桃林十里，娇烂漫红，千朵浓芳，一只只缀乱云霞。那艳霞低下立着的玄衣青年，眉如泼墨，鬓若刀裁。Halos of light rippled and splashed. In the acres of peach trees, pink blossoms bloomed, breathing out sweet perfume. Beneath the rosy clouds and scented mists stood the young man, all dressed in black, his eyebrows as dark as if painted with ink, the hair above his temples as sharply outlined as if cut with a knife.桃花灼灼，枝叶蓁蓁，妖娆伤眼。The peach blossoms are radiant, the leaves luxuriant, their allure stunning.
举个栗子 for exampleI will use the primary school English translationaaaa….. I feel so ShameA small storyThe ancient Chinese余少能视鬼，尝于雪夜野寺逢一提傀儡翁，鹤发褴褛，唯持一木偶制作极精，宛如娇女，绘珠泪盈睫，惹人见怜。　时云彤雪狂，二人比肩向火，翁自述曰：少时好观牵丝戏，耽于盘铃傀儡之技，既年长，其志愈坚，遂以此为业，以物象人自得其乐。奈何漂泊终生，居无所行无侣，所伴唯一傀儡木偶。　翁且言且泣，余温言释之，恳其奏盘铃乐，作牵丝傀儡戏，演剧于三尺红绵之上，度曲咿嘤，木偶顾盼神飞，虽妆绘悲容而婉媚绝伦。曲终，翁抱持木偶，稍作欢容，俄顷恨怒，曰：平生落魄，皆傀儡误之，天寒，冬衣难置，一贫至此，不如焚。遂忿然投偶入火。吾止而未及，跌足叹惋。忽见火中木偶婉转而起，肃拜揖别，姿若生人，绘面泪痕宛然，一笑迸散，没于篝焰。 火至天明方熄。　翁顿悟，掩面嚎啕，曰：暖矣，孤矣。The ancient Chinese can not be translated into EnglishFirst translated into modern Chinese than translated into English————————————————————————————————————我小时候能看见鬼，一个雪夜里在一座荒寺里遇见一位手里提着木偶傀儡的老翁、这老翁白发衣衫褴褛，但是他的木偶却制作精良，活脱一美娇娘，眼和睫毛都挂着泪珠，让人见了心生怜爱。When I was young, I can see the ghost. In a snowy night I meet an old man in the Temple.He has long white beard and white hair and wore very old clothes .But the puppet is very delicate and beautiful, like a pretty girl。————————————————————————————————————外面风雪更大了，于是两人干脆坐着一起烤火，老人便自诉道：年轻时喜欢看木偶戏，为了学习钻研木偶戏，耽搁了时光，学会了，年龄也大了，但是对此也更加坚定，于是便以木偶戏为职业Outside the snow more. so we sat around the fire and began to chat.Old man said when he was young，he like to see puppet showin order to study puppetry.He lost his time miss his life and loveNow he was old，but he can’t change to love and acting puppet showSo he took acting puppet show as his career————————————————————————————————————虽然自得其乐，但是却一生漂泊，居无定所，没有伴侣，唯一陪伴的就是木偶了，老翁一边讲着一边哭泣，我安慰他，恳请他伴奏，做傀儡戏，He was happy and enjoy his career but he don’t have home，Wife and children.Only the puppet is accompanying him.The old man began to cry.I comforted him for a long time and I hope he can perform a puppet show————————————————————————————————————他提着木偶在三尺红布前表演起来，木偶，吟唱悠扬，顾盼神飞，虽然画的是悲伤的妆容，但是却美丽绝伦Finally, he carried the puppet show up in red clothThe beautiful puppets dance with the sounds of the soft musicI'm totally addicted to it. So perfect and impressive…————————————————————————————————————表演完了，老翁抱着木偶心情稍微平复了下，可是突然愤怒的说：我这一生落魄，都是被你所误，天冷了连衣服都买不起，贫寒到了这里，不如把你烧掉，于是便把木偶扔进了火里the show over… Old man holding the puppet become to calm down..Suddenly he was angry to said “My life is very poor and suffering, all because of you , even clothes can not afford to buy,so cold ！so cold ！ burn you！ burn you！free me！ free me！”then he put the puppet into the fire.————————————————————————————————————我来不及制止，只能跺脚，哀叹惋惜这木偶。It was sudden that I could not stop him，just feel sorry for the puppet————————————————————————————————————忽然看见这木偶自己慢慢站起来，悲凄的对着老翁，作揖，行叩拜之礼以示告别，仿佛活人一般,笑着淹没于大火之中。but we surprised to see the puppet slowly stood up . face old man to bow with hands clasped she was sad but she smile to old man thanks for him….like a real human….After Say goodbyeThe puppet disappeared in the fireWe were silent and stunned for a long time until the next day。————————————————————————————————————火到了第二天才熄灭，老翁幡然醒悟，捂着面大哭的说到：是暖和了却真的只剩我一人了。The fire has gone out. The old man finally wakes upHe covered his face crazy shouting the name of the puppet and cryHe said to the gone out fire.“Yes I’m free and warm……………….Yes I’m free and warm”“ But only alone me in this world…………”————————————————————————————————————According to the storyThis MV for youLyric嘲笑谁恃美扬威Mock whose bluffed beauty没了心如何相配Which match is without a heart盤铃声清脆The handbell rings clear帷幕间灯火幽微The light between parocheth flickers我和你 最天生一对You and I are born best pairs没了你才算原罪It is losing you that is the original sin没了心才好相配It is losing a heart that makes our match你褴褛我彩绘Ragged you and painted I并肩行过山与水Walked by mountains and by water你憔悴 我替你明媚You are gaunt, but I shine for you是你吻开笔墨Your kiss melted the dye染我眼角珠泪That becomes the drop of tear at the corners of my eyes演离合相遇悲喜为谁For whom we perform parting, meeting, pain and joy?他们迂回误会They wander and wonder我却只由你支配But you are my only master问世间哪有更完美Are there a thing more perfect in this world?兰花指捻红尘似水In the pointing of a little fingerThe world of mortals flows by三尺红台 万事入歌吹On a high stage several feetEverything goes like songs唱别久悲不成悲 十分红处竟成灰Sorrow prolonged is no more sorrowWhere there is purest red nothing but ashes is left愿谁记得谁 最好的年岁Prey who remembers whose best ages你一牵我舞如飞You pull the string and I dance like I fly你一引我懂进退You drag the string and I move back and forth苦乐都跟随Following no matter bitterness or joy举手投足不违背Never disobey in slightest movements将谦卑 温柔成绝对I turn modesty into absolute gentleness你错我不肯对I don't want to be right when you are wrong你懵懂我蒙昧I am ignorant when you perplex心火怎甘心扬汤止沸Who wants to pour out the water to stop the boiling of your heart?你枯我不曾萎You shrink but I never wither你倦我也不敢累When you get tired I dare not get weary用什么暖你一千岁With what can I warm you for a thousand ages风雪依稀秋白发尾Though wind and blizzardYour hair whites灯火葳蕤 揉皱你眼眉Light flickersBringing wrinkles to your eyes and brows假如你舍一滴泪If you will spare a drop of tear假如老去我能陪If when you are old I can stay by your side烟波里成灰 也去得完美Burning to ashes in a whirl of smokeCould be my perfect leave﻿Yiwei FANG thanks_______________________________________________________________________Just study chinese and feeling the meaning lyric belong the MVIt’s different between EnglishChinese is the most beautiful language in the worldWe have dozens of words describing the different states of the same things same feelings………..If you want to describe a girl looks goodgood-lookingbeautifulprettyhotfabulousattractivegorgeousstunningcharmingenchantinglovelyand….some I can not find outIf you want to describe a girl looks good in chinesethese are a little bit of the chinese美丽贤淑、美丽大方、倾国倾城、大家闺秀、小家碧玉、闭月羞花、沉鱼落雁、倾国倾城、温婉娴淑、千娇百媚、仪态万千、国色天香、花容月貌、明目皓齿、淡扫峨眉、清艳脱俗、香肌玉肤　仪态万端、婉风流转、美撼凡尘、聘婷秀雅、娥娜翩跹、俏丽多姿、风姿卓越、顾盼流转、清丝纠缠、举步轻摇、艳冠群芳、剪水双瞳、美艳绝伦、神仙玉骨、楚楚动人、温柔善良、风姿绰约、顾盼流转、清丝纠缠、举步轻摇、手如柔荑、肤如凝脂、领如蝤蛴、齿如瓠犀、螓首蛾眉、巧笑倩兮、美目盼兮、冰雪聪明、惠质兰心、通情达理、翩若惊鸿、貌若天仙、环肥燕瘦、窈窕淑女、秀丽端庄、艳若桃李、花枝招展、温柔可人、活泼可爱、亭亭玉立、如花似玉、软玉温香、兰质蕙心、秀外慧中、楚楚动人、明眸皓齿、天生丽质、睿智、淑德、贤惠、文静，优雅、纯朴、清秀、可爱、聪颖、灵秀、俊俏、俊美、美丽、大方、温柔、可爱、单纯、纯洁 、明艳不可方物
I don't know if they are all beautiful.  LOL I lived in the Netherlands when I was a child and while I find the sound of Dutch to be soothing like the smell of Grandma's cookies, its extremely gutteral and even the Dutch joke about how it is definitely not beautiful. I feel Cantonese is also not so gentle on the ears and it has a certain glottal thing that sounds like someone is getting ready to retch.French gets a lot of play when people talk about romantic or sexy languages but I find it nasally and not so attractive to hear.  Its association with Romance is likely just do to the Roman influence and the Romantic reputation of the city of Paris itself.The soft consonant sounds of Mandarin however can be very beautiful when spoken smoothly and in a low voice.  My wife's spoken Mandarin varies from her "phone voice" or the way she reads aloud which just makes me crazy, to the harpy shrill, chalkboard shredding sounds of her disciplining our son when he gets out of hand.  But I imagine who the speaker and their mood and tone has a pretty strong effect on the beauty or flinch factor of many languages.Still Im pretty sure you can rank them and Mandarin definitely falls higher on the chart of linguistic aesthetics than Dutch, Cantonese or most Arabic dialects....at least to my ears.
Mandarin is most suitable for modern Chinese.While Cantonese is more suitable for traditional peoms.Wu language is commonly recognised as the most beautiful language, sounding like opera.The harshest should be one of some unknown Hunan dialects, using it, even a romantic private conversation between lovers could sound like a intensive altercation.