
Is there persecution of Muslims in China? No.Is there a crack down in XinJiang Autonomous Region against separatists and terrorists creating violent unrest and murdering citizens. Yes.The crack down is not persecution of Muslims by China.Several “traditional Islamic separatist movements that have existed in China for some time,” such as the East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM), a Uighur separatist organization that China and the United States have labeled a terrorist organization. Beijing often blames Xinjiang unrest on the ETIM, while maintaining that Uighurs enjoy “unprecedented religious freedom” in China.XinJiang Autonomous Region is north of Tibet and touches Afghanistan and Russia with larger borders with India, Pakistan, Tajikistan, Kyrgyzstan, Kazakhstan and the country of Mongolia.The Soviet Union with Russia and the Soviet- stans fueled the unrest in XinJiang and fought a border war with China there in the ‘60’s.Now it is Radical Islam and ISIS and … whoever.XinJiang now has hundreds of fighters with ISIS in Iraq and Syria who have been heard to say, “When we come home, the streets will run red with Han blood.”The Han’s are the majority in China, and in my ‘lao laowai Intenational Consultant working on the high risk business side with the high risk security side guys’ opinion, China absolutely does protect ethnic minorities. Yes … protects minorities.One China.China does not persecute Muslims.A crack down is happening.It’s kind of like Calexit for the People’s Republic of California and Don’t Mess with The Republic of Texas which ‘has the only right to secede’.Muslim separatists and ISIS in China and Calexit and Texas? It’s not going to happen in China, and it’s not going to happen in America.
Persecution?They enjoy much more privileges than general Han people.“Did you hear of Halal tissue? ”Halal toilet for Muslims only.A bus dedicated to Muslims(it runs on the road without a license plate).Counters only for Hui people in a supermarket.Wards for Muslims in a hospital.Halal salt for MuslimsHui people enjoy 10 bonus points in civil service examination in Gansu, the same as the families of the policemen who died in line of duty.“Preach Islamic doctrine to 1.3 billion Chinese people”I think some Chinese Muslims are more devoted than many Arabians in Middle East or those so-called Muslims in Europe. At least you seldom hear of things like Halal tissue or Halal salt. Though a number of them don’t read much Quran, they would get pissed when they hear the word “pig” or see other people eating pork to emphasize their Muslim identity. Last year, two professors proposed that it’s necessary to legislate to manage the Halal industry, and the people who counterfeit Halal food would be sentenced to imprisonment for life or even death. Of course many of them enjoy alcoholic drinks somtimes, not sure if they have invented Halal alcohol, but anti-pork seems to be the ultimate goal in their life. Well, in China, there are other religions that have food prohibition. Buddhists are vegeterians; Taoists cannot eat beef, fish, dogs and geese, but non of them asked to set up dedicated canteens in campus or a law to manage things like “Buddhist food” or “Taoist food”.And when you are offended or blackmailed by these Muslims, even the police would persuade you to compromise, because it’s not politically correct to disrupt “national unity”.Maybe living in a non-Shariah country is a persecution to them. I appeal to Saudi Arabia to accept these mawali and offer them a Shariah life.
Yes, but the Chinese government isn’t persecuting them because they’re Muslims but because of the demands for secession. See, there are ethnic groups in the west of China who are known as Uyghurs and other Turkic peoples. They happen to be Muslims and they have been wanting to separate from China for a while due to cultural differences. China’s government has a strong and widely popular One China Policy which exists and is being propagated to keep China united, especially when many of China’s enemies want the country to be divided *cough* America *cough*. So what is happening is that in order to stop the Uyghurs from forming or organising some sort of rebellion, they are closely monitoring them and restricting certain rights of theirs.I really disagree with this, however that is the reality. Yes, there may be cases where Uyghurs are persecuted for being Muslims, but most of the time it’s because they are seen as a threat to stability in Western China, nothing to do with their faith.
No, of course not. On the contrary, there is only persecution of non-Muslims in China.The so-called 宗教信仰自由 (freedom of religious belief) and 少数民族优待政策 (preferential policies for minor ethnicities) in China is really “too much” that it even persecutes the major ethnicity - Han Chinese people. There are halal salts, Muslim-only toilets, halal foods anywhere in China, and even Muslim-only counters in some shops. Han Chinese people have no such preferential policies, but Muslims have!!!!This is the reason why there is a black humour called “the People’s Islamic State of China”.
There is something you need to know before understanding China’s issues:What the CCP government suppresses is not freedom of speech, or criticizing the government and public figures. Instead, it is radicalism that will be strictly inspected and controlled.It applies to all Chinese citizens. Many Muslims live in the border areas so that they do not know what the Chinese Han also face. They can easily refer to this as Islamic persecution. Also, because some Muslim separatists are under the shelter of some foreign governments outside of China (e.g. Turkey and the US), they do have some chances to speak about the situation, which of course factors into their own benefit.When I compared these to the situation and different stories I have personally encountered elsewhere in the world, I believe that persecution of Muslims in China does not exist in general, but any separatism and fundamentalism in the name of religious freedom will certainly be repressed instantaneously and crudely.(Sometimes there can be tensions in those precautionary measures….)