
The question is based on incorrect assumption. British didn’t pull out of Hong Kong because they felt it was morally wrong. If anything they should have been morally obligated to stay as majority of Hong Kong residents wanted status quo.Now, let me explain why it’s unreasonable to expect China to get out of Tibet.Tibet is not a colony. It’s an annexed territory, and Tibetans are Chinese citizens. Furthermore, Han Chinese now outnumber Tibetans in Tibet. Most westerners think China annexed Tibet in 20th century, but Qing had direct administration in Tibet for over 200 years prior. Tibet’s independence movement in late 19th century, which was sponsored by British (to put Tibet under its influence), was never accepted by Chinese government. 200 years is a long time… when do you think the U.S. will return the land to the native Americans? or California/Texas back to Mexico? Furthermore, if China should be let go of Tibet, Xinjiang should be let go as well. Inner Mongolia should go to Mongolia, and Manchus should be allowed to secede as well.Green and Pink area are territories annexed by China under Manchu rule. If Tibet is a fair game, so are rest of the territories.More than half of China’s territory gone… Factually speaking Tibet has just as much rights as any other territories in the world that wants to secede from their host nation, no more, no less. Yet, somehow western world is incapable of using the same yardstick on China. This is what’s bothering the fuck out of Chinese people.How many former states in the following list should be given their land back?List of former sovereign statesAnnexation and secession of countries are dirty businesses, but it happens and has caused tremendous good as well as bad in history, it’s not a simple matter of right or wrong. Furthermore, about 29% of Tibetans support independence from China based on survey conducted by Tibetan exile government, that doesn’t sound like a majority to me. In fact, it’s less than the percentage of Scottish people who wanted to secede from United Kingdom in the last independence vote in 2014 where 44% of Scotish wanted independence. Yet, I don’t see Alex Salmond winning a Nobel peace prize… (For those of you who don’t know him, Alex is the former Scottish First Minister and one of the biggest proponent for Scottish independence.)Scottish independence referendum, 2014Tibetan exiles discuss China policy | The NationalNow, how silly would it be if Chinese government and its media propped up Lakota native American tribe that currently has an active separatist movement, and proclaim that America should give its states, North and South Dakota and Montana, to the Lakota people? Western countries’ support of Tibetan independence movement is largely viewed in the same light in China.
From 600 years ago, when Yuan Dynasty first appointed Dalai Lamas as the spiritual leaders in Tibet to PRC’s peaceful liberation in 1951. Tibet was NEVER an independent country. As long as the name “Tibet” existed, it has always been part of China. No countries in the world recognizes Tibet as a country.Not forced into incorporation (Panchan Lama, Mao Zedong, Dalai Lama, 1951)The signing of Seventeen Point Agreement for the Peaceful Liberation of TibetBefore 1951, Tibet lamas were theocratic rulers of the Tibet Autonomous Region. In millions of Tibetan, 200k of the population were monks. Other were slaves and serfs. When the bayonets of the State's Liberation Army in Tibet, the last of all on Earth, slavery was abolished.After the liberation of Tibet.....Tibetan population in Lhasa Administered Tibet has increased from 1.2 million in 1951 to almost 3 million in 2007.Infant mortality has dropped from 43% in 1950 to 0.66% in 2000Life expectancy has risen from 35.5 years in 1950 to 67 years in 2000Death rate of women in childbirth: 5,000/100,000 in 1951, 175/100,000 in 2010Tibet has 22,500 km of highways, all built since 1950The GDP of Tibet Autonomous Region (TAR) today is 30 times that before 1950PRC has spent more than 8 billion yuan subsidizing farmers children in Tibet to attend boarding schoolsIlliteracy rate was 90% in 1951, today 98.8% children enrolled in public schoolsPRC offered 15 years of free education, most classes taught in the Tibetan language, only mathematics, physics, and chemistry are taught in Chinese.The list goes on.........Beijing is clearly a better choice for Tibet!
Britain forced Qing empire to cede a piece of its terriory after 1st Opium War, the Hong Kong island.Then in another treaty, Qing ceded Kowloon peninsula.Then in another treaty, Qing leased “New-Territories” to Britain for 99 years.So China have righteous claim over Hong Kong, when it decided to tear up these unjust treaties.Xizang was once a powerful kingdom untill 10th century named Tubo, intermarry and fight with midlander’s Tang dynasty generation by generation. But it collapsed several decades before the fall of Tang, then never again re-build after shattered itself into pieces.Xizang have never been any form of independent country since then. Not even close, after Qing seized fully control over it in late 17th century. The emperor assign its theocratic leader from candidates the local offers, the empirial government have garrison and governor in Lhasa.Qing had never ever cede Xizang to any other country. Xizang have never declared independence even after the fall of Qing or in the chaotic ROC era. “Can’t regain effective governing” does not mean lost sovereignty, just think Aleppo under IS control still belongs to Syria.So, Xizang is part of China.The British could keep Hong Kong in their hand after 1949, only thanks to Mao spared them. CCP decided PLA should to stop at the shore of Shenzhen River, the border of New-Territories, intending to save a small window to get access to western world.Current British government performed quite pragmatic, as they already learnt enough how tough and bad-ass CCP would be when facing foreign occupation after HMS Amethyst Incident on April 1949. London recognized PRC as the sole legal regime of China in 1950 in return of the favor.That 99-year rent treaty was only used as an excuse to support this trade, have no constraint force, just indicating the tacit would end by that time.When it comes to July 1982, Thacher paid a visit to Beijing seeking to grasp the Pearl of East for longer. She once had quite high confidence because of recent victory in Malvinas, but very soon she got stomped over by Deng Xiaoping’s might.“If we can’t take back Hong Kong after half a century the People’s Republic have been found, the government shall be nothing better than late-Qing court, Chinese leaders would be remembered as Li Hongzhang! (who signed the treaty rent New-Territories)”“We Chinese is a bit poor. But once at war, more than enough of us don’t fear death.”“Reach an agreement or not is inessential. Anyway, if not offered other option, China shall start unilateral re-unite progress in 1984 .”Soon Thacher compromised, offered Kowloon and New-Territores to China, only try keep Hong Kong island. Deng answered then he gonna cut every single kind of supply, food, water, electricity, etc. towards Hong Kong. China was willing to suffer the decline of trading, to force UK feed its colony on its own.Britain surrendered to China’s determination and power. The entire Sino-Brit Negotiation about HK had nothing to do about the final result, only the protocol of handling-over.So basiclly, Britain got kicked out of HongKong, after China threw a crystal-clear BOW or DIE ULTIMATUM at Mrs PM’s face. Knowing have 0 chance, Brits conceded, chose to negotiate how gentlely China should be, while carving the stolen Pearl out of Queen’s crown.Try to force China do such a compromise, by any means you can imagine, just let anyone try it.Last time someone do such thing was CIA in 1950s. It trained fled aristocrats and their loyal couriers in the mountains of Colorado, then permeate these agents into Xizang, in attempt to incite an uprise.Given formidable terrain and altitude, the ethnic identity, very small number of PLA garrison, CIA believe that they were assured to prevail.It worked, the largest revolt happened after 1949 outnumbering local PLA 5 to 1. Not very long before the rebellion got literally annihilated, mostly by former serfs and slaves withhold fanatical support to central government.Now Xizang get railway, highway, electricity, obligated education, healthcare, billions of annual subsidies from rich provinces. The living standard of Zang people dwarfing any other country on Himalaya.But, still, you can continue what CIA gave up 50 years ago, will ya?
Tibet acquired Buddhism from China, having previously ignored it. The founder was a Chinese princess married to a Tibetan king - quite a common pattern for missionary religions to spread.Whenever Tibet had a government, it recognised the Emperor of China as overall ruler. See How Tibet Emerged Within the Wider Chinese Power-Political Zone.The Dalai Lamas have an undeserved reputation. The reality was rather squalid, see The Strange History of the Dalai Lamas.
Hong Kong has been one part of China for hundreds of years, until the British robbed it from the weak Qing Dynasty government of China and made HK its colony. It’s right for Americans to be free from the UK, so it’s right for HK to be free from the UK, too.As you see, the old Empire of Great Britain let all its old colonies gain their independence after World War 2. So HK is no exception.And most important, it’s more of a contractual thing than just a noble act. The Qing Dynasty and Britain signed a “renting”(HK) contract of 99 years, and in 1997 it was up, according to the paper China and Britain signed a century ago. So it’s time to return.Another thing you need to know is China is neither like Europe or the USA, we have a long tradition of unification, even more than a thousand years.Europe had many kingdoms for hundreds of years, so it formed a few countries now. The USA was initially 13 indepedent colonies willing to be united. But we formed a single united kingdom for the first time 2200 years ago, and the tradition went on and strenghtened itself. Even though there are short breaks and civil wars in this long long period, most of the time it’s a united nation. So we share the idea of one nation very naturally, and could not bear tearing apart the country.In fact, even though politicians have great powers in China, none of them dare split the country. It’s a severe crime for any political leader, far more serious than really big scandals and corruption.As for Tibet, there was slavery before the CCP entered. I have a few friends who are Tibetans, but they wouldn’t think it’s a good idea to be “a single country”. You should go to Tibet and see what common people really think instead of just listening to a few comments here. They could not represent fellow Tibetans, like IS could not represent all the muslims. Maybe they just want slavery back and be slave owners again.