
I want to clarify two points before give my answer. Firstly, a bad government does not necessarily mean that the government wants to hurt its people intentionally, and vise versa. So I would regard what the government had done as bad if its consequences hurt people no matter what the intention is. Secondly, all Chinese leaders in modern Chinese history do have the same dream of “making China great again (MCGA)” based on their traditional education that the Chinese culture used to be the greatest and an educated Chinese is dutiful to work for China, and this MCGA is of course mixed with different personal world views and ambitions. So I’ll try to answer the question with a brief analysis to begin with on why and how things of China happened to be this way with a reminder now and then on what a thinking might have been involved.Modern day Chinese government started in 1911 after the Uprising of October 10, 1911. Five national flags had changed in Mainland China since as showing below. With each flag change there was a major social change behind, but all changes were somehow connected to MCGA based on Chinese thinking. I’ll make my case with a chronological account of the major events along with flag changes.Flag A （1889–1911）: Qing dynasty (1644–1912), an empire that had a territory three times of the precedent Ming Dynasty, was a creation of Manchus who came from the north of the Great Wall and conquered Ming Dynasty of Han Chinese in 1644 (figure below, left) without using a national flag officially until 1889 since national flag was a western concept. Under constant pressure from both inside and outside, the empire, as a fully recognized sovereignty by the West and having had numerous conflicts with European powers, finally sent official delegates in 1905 to Europe and America to check the Western world out and announced its plan to transform the Dynasty to constitutional monarchy in 1906 as a result. The dynasty published The Outline of Imperial Constitution three years later. But the reform fell short and the dynasty was ended after another three years after its announcement of the Constitution outline. The ruling people simply didn’t have the way of thinking to figure out what was truly wrong with their system and how to save the decaying dynasty.Flag B （1911.10–1912.1）: The 1911 Revolution to overthrow Qing broke off on October 10, and a stratocracy was established next day in WuChang. It has been acknowledged as the beginning of Republic of China (ROC), and their national flag, the first one for ROC, was this “18 ball-star” flag (also the picture above, right), a reflection of the revolutionaries’ ideal of reinstating Han people’s rule of the 18 provinces, the territory of Ming Dynasty. Specifically their ideal was “ to expel the Tatar barbarians (驱逐鞑虏), to Revive Chinese Society (Zhonghua) (恢复中华)”. Zhonghua meant the Han dynasty both culturally and territorially at that time and was formally proposed in 1895 by the revolutionaries .Flag C (1912–1928): The 1911 Revolution was an unexpected easy win for the revolutionaries. Within seven weeks following the uprising 15 out of the 18 provinces, the territory of Ming Dynasty, announced independence from Qing. The 13th Dalai Lama, who was in exile in India after Qing emperor stripped his title resulting from a dispute, also announced Tibet independence from Qing after the Uprising. He came back next year (or in 1913) and made an announcement of Tibet independence again; and Mongolians announced independence on 12/28, 1911 as well. However, among the revolutionaries those who wanted to inherit Qing dynasty won the debate over those who only wanted to “revive Zhonghua”. On the first day of 1912, ROC was formally announced to have been established and the flag was changed to this “five-colored”, representing a republic of five peoples: Hans, Manchus, Mongols, Tibetans, and Muslims (Hui 回). Han people, who used to overthrew the huge Mongol-ruled Yuan Dynasty and revived Han dynasty of Ming by expelling Mongols out of their proper, now were no longer following their ancestors to revive Han dynasty by expelling Manchus out China proper. Rather, they inherited this huge Manchu dynasty entirely without putting up much fight. The flag showed their ambition. They believed that they would build a new republic to make the MCGA dream come true. However, counting for 95% of the total population, they never seriously consulted with other non-Han leaders of the four big minorities about the ruling of this new republic yet still an inherited empire, and most of them still believed that those minorities were barbarians. ROC consequently denied both Tibetan and Mongolian independence claims by including both areas in its Provisional Constitution of the Republic of China launched in March, 1912.It was a turning point for the history of Han Chinese, for they had to think for the first time about everything not only happening in their proper but in the areas as twice large as their proper inhabited with only other minorities who didn’t speak/write Han language/characters, nor worship Confucius but their own gods, and their economy was based not on tilling but grazing. Manchu emperors ruled Han people thru adapting Han culture and other non-Han people thru Tribute System, in which the emperor’s power quickly waned with the increase of distance between him and his subjects which in effect allowed self ruling. Although ROC’s sovereignty over Tibet and Mongolia was internationally recognized, still, in 1924 came the first blow to ROC: Mongolian People's Republic was declared to be independent with Soviet Russia’s support that was first rejected by ROC but finally warranted twenty years later through a treaty between MPR and Soviet Russia in 1945. The treaty also permanently separated outer Mongolia from inner Mongolia allowing the latter stay within ROC. In 1946 ROC formally accepted MPR, the size of ROC was down by about 15% in Han people’s eyes.Flag D (1915.12.15–1916.03.22): A short but very important time for only about 100 days. Key words for this 100 days: ROC was put in constitutional crisis within three months by one of her founders after its birth and the republic empire failed in her beginning.After the Uprising of October 1911, the forced-out military strongman Yuan Shi-kai was called back to rescue Qing empire and became the number one man being the Premier. His troops made the rebellions----the ROC union of the independent provinces----under check, and both sides started to make deal under British mediation. Both agreed to let the Qing go and to start a Han ruling empire, and Yuan would be the president because he was the only one able to hold up the stake. In December 1911 Sun Yat-sen, the leader of anti-Qing Han revolutionaries but not the actual leader of 1911 Revolution came to China from his exile. Sun let his followers elect him provisional president on Dec. 29, 1911. It annoyed Yuan obviously, and even New York Times was surprised in its report of Dec. 31, 1911: “Dr. Sun's election, occurring simultaneously with the peace delegates agreeing to refer the form of government to the convention, indicates a lack of harmony among the republicans, which partly stultifies the work of Dr. Wu Ting-Fang and apparently violates the understanding with Yuan Shi-Kai.” (Wu was the first British educated Chinese Barrister grown up in Qing dynasty.)Yuan immediately pulled his representative out of the talk. It apparently pressed Sun to publically announce on Jan. 21 and 22, 1912, that he was only doing the job for the time being and would step down to let Yuan be the president as soon as the Qing Emperor had abdicated. The talk was resumed and both sides agreed to peacefully transfer to republic with Yuan promising to persuade Qing to surrender the ruling power. The Empress Dowager Longyu announced Abdication on behalf of the last Emperor to yield ruling power to Han people on Feb. 12, 1912. The outgoing Empress surely in fear of being mistreated made it clear in this fewer than 400-character Abdication that the power was going to the Han representative, her Premier Yuan Shikai, to organize a new republic government.However, Sun controlled Nanjing congress made the Provisional Constitution on March 8 and approved and announced by the stepping down Sun on March 11, the same day Yuan augmented as the president. As the historian Tong Tekong describes, “This Provisional Constitution, which has deeply influenced the modern history of China, …(has) changed the format of government from American Presidency to French Parliament. Its provision of presidency makes the premier directly report to the congress not the president, and, thus, the president becomes only a state symbol. Sun announces it on March 11, 1912……This design is obviously created to restrain Yuan. He is not going to have the power like Sun did.” (My translation of quote from 《袁氏治国》by Tong Tekong, 2004)The ROC inevitably fell into constitutional crisis immediately as a new republic empire that desperately needed a strong government to make the transfer from a Confucian faith-state tyranny to a rule-of-law republic while Yuan's hands were tied up. Without Yuan’s leadership, all local strongmen thought that this republic was a joke, or a game for power. ROC lost its critical first two years to set its footing. The entire politics was a circus to the people simply showing that democratic freedom as a brand new ideal was a chaos but nothing else. This experience and understanding of democracy has continued in many Chinese minds to this day.After a chaotic period for a little more than three and half a year since his presidency, Yuan, advised by his advisers, the renowned American legal scholar Frank Johnson Goodnow (…known for his assertion that the Chinese people were not mature enough for a democratic form of government—a position that was later utilized by Yuan, as he attempted to proclaim himself the Emperor of China in 1915-6.), and his Japanese adviser Aruga Nagao (有贺长雄, the first Japanese Nobel prize nominee), had a showdown with Sun’s party and decided to reform the republic empire. In December, 1915, Yuan announced his reform—-to change the system to constitutional monarchy with the name Empire of China with regnal year Hongxian (洪宪), meaning “grand constitutional”. But it was beyond the understanding of ordinary Chinese who never heard anything in such that an emperor would be living and ruling under constitution. They just wanted not to see another emperor crown on any of their new rulers, regardless. ——A lesson definitely learned by all later Chinese leaders whoever ruled China ever since: Never bear emperor title to rule no matter what the reality is.Yuan publicly withdrew his plan and apologized to his people 100 days later. He died on the 6th day of June, 1916, after failing to bring the system under control, only bearing a name of “arch-usurper of state power” recorded in history books still taught in today’s China. Sun continued to fight for power to modernize China under him by starting “third revolution” .Flag E (1928–1949 in Mainland; –present in Taiwan): Sun started a new party, Chinese Revolutionary Party (CRP), the pre-KMT. He asked party members to be absolutely loyal to him, even claimed, “ …without me any pursuit of republic or democracy has to end in its opposite side. I must ask every comrade to obey me for I’m pursuing the revolution (for the nation). You would be deadly wrong as soon as you doubted about your obedience. You people simply have so limited knowledge and experience, so you go nowhere except following me without asking any questions.” (My translation of quote from A Memoir of the Era of Chinese Revolutionary Party 1989《中华革命党时代的回忆》by Ju Zheng.) Sun’s CRP transformed to KMT in 1919, two years before Chinese Communist Party was created.In 1923 KMT under Sun received financial and military aid from Soviet Union after Sun had repeatedly failed to find aids from western countries and Japan. KMT held its first Nationalist Congress in 1924, claiming to represent all political classes in its struggle for the unification of China. KMT reorganized to adopt key organizational features of the Soviet communist party. Sun allowed CCP members to join KMT and increasingly used ideology as a means to centralize the power of KMT. It’s Sun who started following the Soviets to set Anti-Imperialism as the primary goal of Chinese revolution, and he was the one who first used the term Unequal Treaties to prove the Chinese humiliation by International Imperialism. His student and successor Chiang Kai-shek reunified China in 1928 by defeating all the “running dogs of Imperialism,” the local warlords. He changed Sun’s policy of collaboration with CCP and crackdowned CCP in 1927. He now became another “running dog of imperialism” called by CCP, a party more revolutionarily radical, but his teacher Sun has been regarded as the Founding Father of Modern China by both parties.Chiang’s fight against CCP was doomed after Sino-Japanese war broke off in 1937. As the historian Anthony James Joes puts, “The Japaneses war devastated the Nationalists forces, revived the Communist party, and thus changed the history of the world.” (Resisting Rebellion: The History and Politics of Counterinsurgency, 2006) But Chiang insisted following Sun’s ideology. At the end of WWII, seeing the dawn of Japanese defeat, Chiang Kai-Shek published his China’s Destiny and brought up the Unequal Treaties magic again to fuel up nationalism to support his rule but ignored internal reforms. The corrupted KMT rule ended in 1949 after a three year long bloody civil war between KMT and CCP.During Chiang’s rule Xinjiang Muslims rebelled in 1933 (First East Turkestan Republic). Ten years later, Muslims, encouraged and organized by the Soviet Union, rebelled at Ili. It lasted to 1949 and the rebellions turned to CCP for support against Nationalists. Second East Turkestan Republic was short lived during the rebellion but its influence continued to this day among Xinjiang Muslims.Flag F (1949-present, in Mainland): After PRC was created in 1949, the Nationalist State system was replaced with Communist State system in Mainland China. CCP’s rule of China during Mao era was Stalinist style plus Mao’s destructive thinking in the construction of PRC. By the time of Mao’s death the GDP of PRC was less than 5% of the world’s against its 22% world population, which made per capita GDP of China at a level of a little more than a fifth of the world’s. (table below, Loren Brandt et al, 2014)Led by Mao China joined USSR bloc and fought against America in N. Korea and Viet Nam, had border conflicts with India and USSR, and was in war with Viet Nam after Mao’s death. Conflicts between Han ruling and Tibet and Xinjiang minorities have remained as the main concerns of the government from time to time, including Dalai Lama’s escape to India in 1959.China’s industrialization before Reform was a copy of Soviet model. Over one hundred thirty Key Projects mostly of heavy industry were most completed aided by Soviets. China also developed nuke bombs and launched satellite while having an undeveloped economy. A great famine broke up at the end of 1950s thru the beginning two years of 1960s that perished millions of lives. Mao started Cultural Revolution in 1966 to continue his pursuit of MCGA mixed with his Marxism and never had China’s social norms reinstalled until his death in 1976.After Mao’s death Economic Reform started in late 1970s internally and extended externally in early 1980s. China reopened to the world and the reform eventually led to the abandonment of communism practice in PRC but the country did not change its flag for the first time in past 100 years after a major social transformation. China had made her first remarkable social change essentially peacefully for ten years until Tiananmen Square protests of 1989. But the country didn’t stop its economic reform and its per capita GDP has grown from ~20% to 116% of the world average, ranking at ~80th in 2014. Chinese economy now is the second largest after pooling in all of its 20% world population.To summarize, I would draw some factual conclusions based on this very brief review of China’s past 100 years:1. There have been many Chinese leaders who all wanted to live up to this MCGA in past 100 years with personal marks. Sun, a typical example as widely revered and as reviled, gave MCGA a personal interpretation for all Chinese and moved forward with measures undermined the first Chinese republic. Deng, who was one of many Mao’s students and comrades, reopened China which led to the great success of Chinese economic development but the abandonment of communism unintentionally. Today’s China is at her apex in Chinese history although its per capita GDP is still behind many countries. Never before there were so many Chinese who could enjoy a quality life like now. China’s new leader now is apparently taking MCGA personal again. So China’s future will largely determined by his own MCGA interpretation.2. Modern China is an inheritance of Qing Empire although the ruling people Han are not the conquerors. However, after Han’s ruling became no more a Tribute System, PRC itself has been bearing characteristics of imperialism. During Mao era this characteristics had been managed thru “class struggle” but evolved to a conflict between Han and other major minorities after “class struggle” was discarded. The fundamental cultural differences between Han and other minorities have not been diminished thru 100 year long Han ruling, and Han people’s MCGA hasn’t been transformed to becoming other minorities’ dream which is clearly shown in China’s social and economic development that mostly is in the region of southeastern but not in northwestern China.3. The MCGA dream is rooted in traditional thinking but has not evolved along with China’s industrialization to a Chinese Modernity. The theory of Sun has helped Han Chinese keep China united but also created nationalism that blamed China’s misery on the Western capitalism and led China to choosing Russian Leninism. Its practice in China caused Chinese people tens millions of lives and put Chinese economic development on hold for 27 years.4. The failure of China’s early republic experiment has been imposing a huge negative impact on Chinese people’s view of democracy and keeping haunting them, which in combination with China’s imperialist characteristics has been strangling China to an emotional tangle. Restrained by the way of Chinese thinking together with decades long twisted education, it becomes a somewhat popular Chinese view that there are always hostile forces out there who only want to destroy China. This ghost can come out to play at government’s will to shift the attention of the public to Chinese problems.5. China’s economic development in past 35 years is a great achievement. This achievement has made the MCGA dream never so close to come true. It’s no question that the achievement is attributed to the work of Chinese people. However, it is to a large extent misinterpreted in ignoring the fact that it is a part of the modernization of entire human civilization. To over emphasize this great achievement as the inevitable renaissance of ancient Chinese civilization creates a blind pride blocking people from seeing what human Modernity is really about and from recognizing the problems with Chinese culture. It will only slow down the development of critical thinking and consequently make it more difficult to find solutions to existing historic Chinese issues.Finally, What makes Chinese government a bad government? I believe, that the leaders of Chinese government keep thinking in a traditional way in their effort to make MCGA come true often becomes what makes Chinese government a bad government as shown in modern Chinese history. China has never been so strong and resourceful but the traditional thinking cannot evolve with the fast progress of Chinese society and the world modernization. China’s government is ruling her with great fear in my view which is inherited from the history and enforced thru self victimized education to Chinese people. The 1.4 billion Chinese people should not only be the labors of the world factory but also part of the brain pool of entire human race, including the non-Han Chinese, to think freely. It won’t happen until Chinese leaders are free from traditional way of thinking.*Edit: After seeing it viewed by over 3k times I decided to come to correct some errors and comment on my claim in the last sentence. Obviously it is rhetorical if every Chinese leader only comes from Chinese people. Therefore, I think that we can only say that the ruling of Chinese government will change with time when people make changes with their thinking. I know that I might be wrong. So I truly welcome critics and appreciate different thoughts.**Edit: I made correction on Chinese GDP calculations. Now I would like to add my perspective on the MCGA as to what it really means in order to clarify questions by the reader related to it. Probably nobody knows exactly what the contents of MCGA are because it is basically a subjective wishful thinking that was initially based on “Chinese Humiliation” . The humiliation was real, yet the question was who to blame on for the misery. Through late Qing dynasty and early ROC years Chinese elites commonly believed that the Chinese culture itself was the root cause of the problem and the culture needed to be modernized. The thinking was changed after Sun Yat-sen turned to Soviet Russia for help and formally announced in Sun–Joffe Manifesto at the beginning of 1923. Sun since modified his Three Principles of the People in which his first principle Nationalism (MinZu 民族) was no longer “to expel the Tatar barbarians (驱逐鞑虏), to Revive Chinese Society (Zhonghua) (恢复中华)”, but to unify China and maintain its independency through the course of Anti-Imperialism. Obviously it fitted the the new ROC, an inherited Qing empire, by attributing all Chinese problems to Western powers’ bullying. Chinese culture itself was spared but a victim of Western invasion. After the showdown between the more radical revolutionary CCP and KMT, Confucianism was replaced by Communism in Mainland after KMT was eventually defeated. Thirty years later after communist practice failed in PRC it logically led to the belief that communism must be the problem. Now, after achieving its great economic development, China is returning to the point to catch the culprit again. The answer is obvious if Sun’s theory still holds up to Chinese leaders. Or else, if their way of thinking has changed because Sun’s theory can’t hold up any more when being scrutinized differently.
A lot of answers here suggest that it's very hard to define a good/bad government, but I would say it's surprisingly simple.Historically, China’s government should take care of its people, and the emperor should be kind but decisive, leading his people to make the proper decision under tough circumstances. Sounds pretty much like every government should do, right? The most significant difference between China's good government and the West’s is that China's government doesn't work on (capitalist) social contract. The emperor works more like a family member of his citizens.Nowadays, different people have different values for judging if the government is good or not. Based on corruption, regulation and many other reasons, liberals believe China should adopt the Western political system as soon as possible. Meanwhile, conservatives believe the country should stay as it is for a while and see if this system and its evolved version can still work in the future. After all it has been working well in the past few decades.Liberals may tell you that China's current government is bad, but conservatives may tell you that it is actually pretty good. It all depends on who you're with.This is a pretty good thing. Plurality, if carefully managed, can keep people mentally agile. Luckily, China doesn't have some kind of political correctness or universal political standard yet, prompting the country to carefully think more about the future of itself.
Considering the large population, the current government definitely did a great job there.By the way, this question itself is not referenced to a sufficiently correct fact. That indicates some mystery motivations, and to some extents, this question just simply twist China government being bad, which is an infringement of first rule of quora. Please reformat this one, cheers.
I think the question is not a proper one.Since the one who asked the question has already had a preconceived idea that Chinese government is a bad government,and he just turned to quora to find someone who can support his idea with some clues to make himself convinced that he is right.Whether Chinese government is a bad government is a question without answer.Actually it's not proper to evaluate a government with a word such as good or bad.Maybeit's no a big problem to comment on its behaviors with such words.we can say that the Chinese government did a unpleasant job before 1980s,it made many mistakes and didn't make the country coming to a prosperous future in the right direction.Though,it did make some contribution to the country’s development,it should have done more.After that period,china has gone such a long way to a bright future and is still on the way to be better.Compared with governments of other countrys in the near twenty years,what the Chinese government has done is good enough.Whether the Chinese government will continue doing a good job in the future is unknown.Lets watch for the next decade.
Disregarding the semantics about democracy, freedom of speech, rules of law, etc, etc, there’s one fundamental difference between Chinese government and the more ‘enlightened’ western democratic government, and this difference is what makes the Chinese government ‘bad’.The Chinese government can make an individual utterly and completely powerless.Imagine you are a disgruntled individual that was wronged by the government/institutions, and you are out to seek justice. You will find the mission near impossible in China. The various governmental bodies ensure individual odd-balls of the society are isolated, silenced and forgotten. This has been so for thousands of years across hundreds of dynasties. This is the price the ruling class of China has to and willing to pay, because the Chinese ruling class values stability and harmony above all else, and the Chinese culture is all about collectivism vs. individualism.When you are a law-abiding citizen working along side the government, you will find all your needs met, grievances addressed and opinions heard. But as soon as you veer off from this path, you will find yourself enclosed, trapped, muted and forgotten.Now in comparison, if you were a wronged individual in a more ‘enlightened’ western democratic society, you can always find ways to be heard, and there’s always someone willing to listen. There’s plenty state and private watchdogs, ombudsmen, overseers to voice your disagreement to and plenty of lawyers you can employ. If all else fails, there’s privately owned media you can go to as well.In other words, it is a terrible terrible business to be the odd one out in China, not so much in a western democratic country.There’s a reason why overwhelming number of Chinese Quorans are in praise of Chinese government, it’s because those are the ones being fulfilled, they are content and they are what the government is working for and working with.Majority of Chinese willingly choose to forgo the assurance that one day they might fall short of the government’s good graces and get stuck in the rut, because they want tangible benefits here and now. Whereas for an average westerner, he/she is NOT willing to forgo that assurance because who knows one day they might need it.In a twisted way, Chinese government is probably the most democratic of them all, because it gives what most people want, not what the few needs.