
WOMAN IN CHINAWoman in China is secure, enjoys her freedom and works very hard in whatever field she is working into. China, as Asia’s biggest economy and manufacturing giant, no doubt has a very strong and dedicated female participation in this achievement.  One can see Chinese woman working almost in every field like shops, cabs, hotels, restaurants, bus drivers, agents, taxi drivers besides they are in traditional sectors like Education, Army, Hospitals and in factories manufacturing almost everything in the world.  This was a pleasant experience to see them enjoying their freedom, as they almost seems to be in total control in hospitality sector of Chinese Railways, Chinese Airports /Planes/Airports , Chinese Bus Stands and they work shoulder to shoulder with male counterparts without any visible discomfort.  During my stay of two weeks and travelling extensively from Shanghai to Tibetan Plateau, not a single time I was able to see any man taking interest in any woman, ogling or staring at someone. Now, this observation also includes those faces too, which I marked as “Not Good” .  I saw them travelling alone late night metros and bus services and even driving cabs in night. As a India born, such sight in a Asian country, I am sure is rare. A strong economy comes from a safe and secure woman. I am sue, India has to learn a lot from China. What Chinese aggression and heavy headedness is promoted by international media – I could not see any such trait in them. I haven’t noticed anywhere in China where they are going “over” – it looks as they know and understand importance, responsibility of their role and they are equally acknowledged by their companion and families.  Chines do not show much “ Westernized “ emotions in public and love and romance is limited to hugs, a arm around waist like gestures. Husbands/ Boyfriends were seen holding woman purses – and she was leaning to his arm or freely walking carrying herself like a queen.  One more thing, which I so far, could not see is, anger and aggression in male voice while interacting with woman in public. And not only anger or aggression, I have yet to see teasing, leg pulling like common male traits. I don’t think such behavior might not be there, but it seems they are careful in their conduct in public.I had my share of crooked and pissed of woman working in pharmacies and shops, where they were least interested in exploring ways to communicate with a alien, they simply negate..” May Yo “ is big NO, as soon as you try to make a conversation. But such simple and natural experiences are acceptable in a country where Non-Chinese speaking people are aliens. Source: Woman in China
Being a foreign woman in China is quite a different experience to being a Chinese woman in China. I've been living in China for over 6 years and I'll tell you 5 crazy things that have happened to me here and what I think they mean for women in China. Here's a little backstory: I came to China alone, having graduated in 2008 when the economy was awful for jobs. I chose to find a job in Chengdu, since it was off the beaten track. I didn't want easy access to foreign products and English-speakers, I wanted the real deal. I figured if I was going to be in China, I'd better be in China, if you know what I mean. Here are some of the things that happened to me in my first years living in China, you may choose to believe me or not, but none of this is exaggerated. If you've read this far, don't stop at this list, I don't want to give you the wrong impression. I actually love China, though it may not look like it at first, so if you've made it this far, keep reading!For each of these points, I'll explain what I think was happening and how that relates to being a foreign woman in China. All of my lingerie was stolen from my balcony when I left it hanging on the line to dry. When I walk down the street, I often turn around to see a line of people following closely behind me like ducklings. A gas leak in my apartment caused me to pass out in the shower and when I awoke I found that the hospital had put me in front of a big glass window (I was still wet and still naked). A group of construction workers curiously stood around chain-smoking and watching the show. I am often called a Russian prostitute on the street and sometimes cars slowly follow me as I'm walking. I've been on Chinese TV multiple times.So let's break these down and see what we can really discover about being a foreign woman in China. By the way, if you have any questions or want to hear more, I have a podcast that talks all about what it's like to live in China. Find it here: www.writtenchinese.com/podcastNumber 1 : Let's Talk about the Undies! My underwear mysteriously went missing after I had been in China for about a week. I made the mistake of leaving it on the line to dry overnight, and a sneaky thong bandit crawled up my balcony and snatched them! I have a few theories about this. First, this happened back in 2009, and at that time online shopping in China was still far from being refined. I would bet that back then, very few people ordered their panties online, so they were left to choose from whatever was sold at the local shops. China is traditionally much more conservative when it comes to sexuality than the West, so often this means a lot of high-waisted granny panties and forget about any luscious fabrics like silk and lace. My theory #1: It was a young women who snatched them to impress a boyfriend or husband. China being as conservative as it is; maybe my panties being on display for several hours was a bit too risque and offended one of the neighbors. My theory #2: An uptight older lady pulled them down to teach me a lesson. Where I was living was close to a high school. Several of the children from that high school lived in the same complex where I was living.My theory #3: Some teenage boys couldn't resist, and then distributed my garments like Halloween candy to their mates. I'll never know what actually happened, but one thing's for sure: Foreign ladies in China, dry your undies INDOORS!  Number 2 : Chinese Ducklings will Follow You AnywhereLet me clarify something when talking about this one: I was not living in a particularly urban area. I was near Chengdu, but still quite a distance from the actual city. The surrounding area was countryside, so a lot of people I encountered were farmers or factory workers. Whenever I would go out on the street, I would attract a lot of attention. It still happens today where I live in Shenzhen, but it's much more mild than before. These days most Chinese people are used to seeing foreign men here and there, but foreign women can still be a spectacle. At that time, when I would go out, people would be so intrigued about what a foreigner might like to buy or eat, that they would follow me around snapping photos and giggling. I imagine I got a tiny taste of what it's like to be a Hollywood starlet. Though I have days where I just want to disappear into the crowd, for the most part this phenomenon is a big advantage. It's easier to get higher paying jobs, get special treatment at the local spa, and I don't think I've ever paid for a drink at a club. Being constantly watched is something you get used to, and if you learn to see the benefits, you really can't complain.  Number 3 : The Monkey in the Hospital ZooI remember clearly waking up in that hospital bed after getting knocked out by CO. Safety standards in China have definitely improved, but there are some things you learn the hard way- like NEVER open the window between the shower and the gas water heater. Fortunately I was living with a roommate who noticed that I had passed out and in a panic, he scooped me into a blanket and rushed me to the hospital. In the chaos, he didn't grab any clothes. When I came to, they had me hooked up to some IVs and although they had attempted to cover me up, there was definitely more on display than I would have wanted. I guess they put me in front of a big glass window for several reasons. First, maybe they thought the light and sounds would revive me. Second, they probably had never had a foreign patient at that hospital before. Having me there for the world to see likely brought the place some kind of prestige. Finally, maybe this is standard procedure and I'm looking too far into it.  Whatever the reason was, I'm sure that there are some Chinese constructions workers out there who still reminisce about the time they saw a nude foreign girl in the window. Number 4 : I'm not Russian!If you're a young foreign white woman in China with a slight build, then you have no doubt been called a Russian. I can't tell you how many times I've been in the elevator and people are talking about the "Russian Miss", thinking that I don't understand what they're saying. You have to understand that many Chinese people can't comprehend why an American girl would want to live in China. Chinese people are generally very pragmatic and after all, as Americans we can make more money at home where we have voting rights and clean air. There is a large amount of Russian women who come over to China as 'dancers', to take advantage of the burgeoning economy. It's for this reason that many people assume that I am a lady of the night. Whether I dress casually or not, someone somewhere will call me a Russian. On 6 or 7 occasions I've had guys following me in their cars while I walked to work in the morning. I guess they are looking for 8am nookie?! I will say though, that I've never really felt unsafe. While their catcalls and wandering eyes can make me feel uncomfortable, these kind of run-ins are few and far between and have never escalated beyond a nuisance. I've had WAY worse in other countries, trust me. In fact, China is probably the most low-key country I've been to when it comes to getting harassed on the street. Still, it's a weird thing being propositioned in broad daylight. But don't go feeling sorry for me, the ones who get it the worst are the decent Russian girls who come here to make an honest living. Number 5 : It's Showtime!Wow, have you really read to the bottom of my answer? I'm flattered! I hope you've gotten some insights into what it's like to be a Caucasian foreign woman in China. While there are some crazy things that can happen, in a nutshell being a foreign woman here means you have many great advantages, and a few minor annoyances. I wanted to end with this idea of being on TV to demonstrate just how cool it can be in China as a woman. Due to the fact that foreign women are still the oddballs here, people often jump at the chance to grab an audience's attention by having our faces on advertisements, billboards and TV shows. If you've ever wanted to be a star and loved by millions, China is the easiest place to do it. I've been offered quite a few modeling jobs and I'm 5' 7"! I'd recommend any woman to come to China and see for herself. It's safe, it's a great learning experience, and you'll definitely take some stories home with you. Remember, if you have any more questions for me about life in China. Go to the podcast link above and ask me ANYTHING! Or you can see what I'm up to at the software company here at: Written Chinese 
What does it feel like to be a woman living in China?I’m a Shanghainese woman so…… I noticed I shouldn’t be complaining about life. Because if I do, many people will tell me to go to hell. One easy way to tell about a woman's life is to look at the man next to her. And Shanghainese men are famous known for:The Versatile Ma Da SaoMa da dao is Shanghainese slang meaning, “shop, wash, cook.”The exception is when the term is used to describe men in Shanghai — guys who don’t just shop, wash and cook, but famously do so without complaint…..The Professional Bag CarrierWhen shopping with her Shanghainese boyfriend or husband (yes, Shanghai men shop, remember “ma” from point number one?) the Shanghai female doesn’t need to carry any bags, including her own petite purse….Family PrideChatting with a married Western man, you may need to wait hours before he mentions his wife. Chatting with a married Shanghainese man, you may need to wait hours before he stops talking about his wife…..ToleranceThe relationship between mother and daughter-in-law is like an active volcano in the Middle Marriage Kingdom. But the Shanghai husband’s legendary tolerance can single-handedly turn a lava flow into a pile of dead ashes, or a volcano to be enjoyed and admired like Mt. Fuji…….Masculinity in DisguiseShanghainese men simply see it as their responsibility to provide their families with a wealthy life. Their outlook is, “I’ll make all the money and deal with all the ‘bei-ju,'” a internet phrase in China meaning “everything tragic.”…..[Shanghai men]These might be considered “whipped” by outsiders, but a Shanghainese man will tell you proudly that it’s their pleasure. (No kidding) The superpowers of Shanghai husbands allow them to actually have fun in malls and salons.One Shanghai government official once openly stated: “We Shanghai men not only know the importance of supporting the family financially, but we also know the importance of emotional support and always show consideration to our wives.”How did the relationship between Shanghainese men and women evolved into today?Honestly, I don’t know. Everything just seems so natural in Shanghai. (I’d be happy to hear what everybody thinks….)
I don't know about being a Chinese woman in China (and I think Faye Wang perfectly answered the question) but I can tell you about being a western expat woman living in China, in Shanghai in particular.In my experience, living in China as a woman was very different on one point: safety. Shanghai is pretty safe when you're an expat, a woman in particular, and it really changed my life as I was not afraid of going out late at night, alone and wearing a skirt. I'm sure some people will disapprove as I obviously do not represent the majority of woman in China, but it is something that we shared with my girlfriends there. You can go out in the weirdest district but nobody would tease you or hit on you, same thing in the country when I visited Yunnan or Shanxi.Finally, maybe I feel this way because Paris is not so safe anymore for ladies, but it was really appreciable not to have guys hitting on us all day and being rude.
I spent my early years in a prefecture level city. I may have been one of the luckiest little girls in the world, because my dad used to say "you are a human being first, a woman second. Don't ever let anyone look down on you because of your gender." He made sure my extended family treated me with the same respect they gave to the male cousins.I don't live in China now, but I still go back quite frequently. I'm so optimistic seeing the emergence of the independent women who ask themselves "what do I want to accomplish with my career? who am I and what do I stand for as an individual?" - something that rarely existed for my parents' generation. But at the same time, these same women ask me "is it possible for a feminine woman to do that?" This is for tasks like negotiating effectively, or coming out on top of traditionally male / or any field.This concept of "feminine woman" seems to be causing a mental glass ceiling for these women. I suspect many of the self made, white collar women have been dumped or shafted from romantic relationships because they come off as "non feminine" or "too intense". The recent PR campaign "Leftover Women (http://en.wikipedia.org/(wiki/Sheng_nu) shaming independent single women didn't help either. I wish I could make these women understand that they are more beautiful and stronger than they have ever given themselves credit for.Despite the down sides, I think the status of women in China is better than it has ever been. And maybe one day soon we can all celebrate the beautiful, independent, successful Chinese woman.