
Warning! I have included some stomach churning photographs.The Nanking Massacre was not an anomaly. It was standard wartime behavior for the Japanese army in WWII.I look upon their behavior with teeth clenching horror.Here is a list of countries invaded, conquered, or occupied by Japan before or during WWII:ChinaSoviet UnionMongoliaVietnamCambodiaLaosUnited StatesMalaysia (UK)SingaporeHong Kong (UK)Dutch East Indies (Indonesia)Timor (Portugal)Australia by seaNew Zealand by seaBurma (Myanmar )IndiaBritish New Guinea (Papua)The PhilippinesAndaman and Nicobar Islands (India)Straits Settlements (Singapore)Brunei (UK)Nauru (Australia)Guam (USA)Imphal (India)Wake Island (USA)Gilbert and Ellice Islands (UK)Christmas island (Australia)ManchuriaTaiwanKoreahttp://www.japan-talk.com/jt/new...Their behavior was generally barbaric. The Japanese were one of the most racist societies in history right up there with and possibly worse than Nazi Germany. They believed their superiority gave them to right to treat their inferiors any way they wanted and they left a swath of 10 million or more civilian bodies in their wake.Civilians were shot, bayoneted, beheaded, mutilated, buried alive, raped in a frenzy of sadistic butchery across Asia wherever they went. Mustard gas and biological agents were used. Medical experiments were done. Pregnant women had their fetuses cut out and both left to die in pools of blood. POWs were murdered, starved, worked to death, used for bayonet practice, decapitated, and eaten.https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ja...https://www.hawaii.edu/powerkill...The Japanese have a long history of insincere apologies. Part of the reason is the populace is protected from the facts about their WWII atrocities and are actually encouraged to think of themselves as the victims in the war. Sometimes so outrageous is this denial that there are accusations that reports of atrocities are an American attempt to coverup their own warcrimes.http://time.com/5546/japanese-nh...https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Na...http://www2.biglobe.ne.jp/remnan...If the Japanese were to genuinely regret and express this regret like the Germans did then I think they could look forward to being accepted back into the community of Asian nations. But instead their denials continue unabated so the tension persists.Captured photos. Like the Germans the Japanese liked to record their atrocities:Burying alive was standard operating procedure for prisoner disposalNankingBeheadings were done for sportNankingBayonet practiceI have not included the most gruesome photos.
I am an American. I have never been to Asia.I have no bias to either country, other than a love of both cultures. Or I didn’t, until I learned about this.The massacre, aptly named “The Rape of Nanjing” has been called a genocide because it was a slaughter of civilians without any reason–The city had already been captured.And not many, but still too many, Japanese people are literally denying any such “conflict”. Everyone else just calls it an exaggeration or demands “proof”. Some of the Japanese do acknowledge it.You know how, in the Western world, Holocaust deniers cause disgust in the regular population? This is like if the entire country of Germany continued to deny the Holocaust, or called it an exaggeration.But like, there are also photographs of young corpses with bayonets sticking out of vaginas littered across the city. Women and little girls were systematically raped, household by household, and then murdered. Children's genitals were sliced open to make rape easier for the Japanese soldiers. A pregnant woman was resisting rape, so she was disemboweled, fetus removed, then raped after death. This is all eyewitness accounts by locals and foreigners, film, photographic, primary source evidence.And of course the 100 heads contest, which turned into decapitating 150 Chinese civilians.Who cares if it was 300,000 people or fewer?The Nanjing Massacre is by far the most fucked up thing Japan has ever done, and they literally have memorialized some of the criminals responsible.Japan needs to apologize. I read the Wikipedia article, saw some of these pictures, and I want to call into work in the morning. So I can throw up. And cry.It was like Genocide for Fun.Edit: What a response…!Many have noted the culture of shame and honor in Japan, and how admitting to these atrocities/ “apologizing” would be impossible in that context. I see your point.But an apology? It acknowledges that these things happened. Because currently, the war crimes aren’t really acknowledged. That’s how things get omitted from schools, and textbooks. That's how Southeast Asians and Koreans and the Chinese stay bitter.When bad things like this happen, when humans do terrible things to other humans, it must be taught. So it does not happen again. We must learn history, as an example of what not to do.Don’t bitch that the Chinese government uses the massacre as propaganda to distract the people and keep them in line. If Japan had apologized, they wouldn't be able to use it.It still happened. And more people in Western countries should learn about it. Why not, just because it didn't happen to us? What about Rwanda? What about the Balkans, Cambodia? The famines in the USSR?My opinion of Japan has changed drastically. Before, since we fucking nuclear attacked them and somehow have a good relationship now, I respected what I considered a modern and free country. But this totally changed my mind.I still have no hard feelings toward Japanese people, since obviously it's not their fault, and just like the rest of Asia, I can't live without Japanese shit.Edit 2: Stop trying to invalidate my answer because I'm American and “not aware of our own mistakes”. You are making that shit up- I do know what we've done. This question is not about America, so sit the fuck down. I'm unenthusiastically American. And I'm sick of my nationality being used to cheapen what I think about the Nanjing Massacre.
Most of them probably aren't aware of it. Those that are aware of it probably each have their own opinion of it, but my guess is that the majority of them think it was a horrific act.There really isn't much to think about it other than being shocked and horrified at the horrible depths to which human beings can sink.
I'm from Nanjing. Conincidently I talked about this massacre with a Japanese person years ago.My English is not that good:)))) hope you can understand what I'm writing lol.By the end of this answer I'll post some pictures about that.I was born in Nanjing. I'm now a freshman in Nanjing .Remembering Nanjing Massacre is really necessary for everyone from this city.In Nanjing, since I was born, I'll always remember that date: 13th December,1937—-known as the biginning of Nanjing Massacre for Chinese people.Since I was in primary school, until now, in 13th December, the alarm rings all over the city, reminding people of that day. People will always stand still, whatever they are doing, they just stand, and mourning for the victims of Nanjing Massacre. It's really awesome and sometimes I'm proud of that because We are always trying to remember the history.There's a memorial museum for the victims of Nanjing Massacre. It presents people with some photos, books, weapons or something else related to that massacre…there are also some bones of..victims.There's a really huge wall inside the museum, carved with names of victims.MORE THAN 300,000 names. There's another equipment in the museum, it is called “seven drops of water” Every seven second water drops, resembling one person died because of the slaughter.Whenever I visit that place I feel sad and angry.The huge wall. On the left and right side carved with names of victims. In the middle the screen shows faces of victims.Bones of victimsAnother place is near my home where Japanese people made a big slaughter. It's near YangZi River.What impressed me most is that one rainy day I rode a bike on the road. Studdenly I found a bunch of flower in front of the monument. The flower is fresh.There are always some people remembering the history.Another small incident is when I was in high school. One Monday, one history teacher in my school told us about her story. Her family was ruined by that massacre and a lot of people died. She lived. Then she cried..she's chocking with sobs…It’a really tough for those Nanjinger who went through the terrible massacre and will always be a nightmare..There are less than 100 survivals. But we will never let the truth and history scatter in the wind.I’m not saying that we should hate Japan. On the contrary we need to learn a lot from the massacre:The corrupt and lag of China is the reason why we are killed and massacred. We need to be strong.We are not to hate. Hate is about the former generation. What we should know is that peace is a good thing. We should forget about hate and cherish peace.We should remember the history and learn from the past. We need to remember because both for China and Japan we are avoiding making such mistakes.Finally here’a what Japanese say about Nanjing Massacre
You asked me to answer this question, but I know my answer is going to disappoint you and this is an honest answer as A Japanese. I had been hesitating to answer after getting A2A, because I just remember the "word" Nanjing Massacre.   Textbooks and education differs by generation.  I am in my 30's and don't remember what I learned in junior high or high schools,  and for me back then, history was just a subject that I had to pass tests, and I was just busy memorizing what happened in which year.  This is just my experience and I don't know about other genetations, but I think schools focused more about telling us what happend between the US and Japan.  I remember that I saw some videos about the bombing in Japan and attack on Pearl Harbor.  This is just what I think, but as for Japanese, only people who are interested in history know well about Nanjin Massacre.I am a person who was wondering why Japanese government has to keep apolozing Chinese and South Korean governments.I started using Quora several months ago and Quora users' answers are helping me learn about what Japan did.