
We as human beings are generally drawn to things that are different from us. I think China is one of the countries least touched by the wave of globalization. They still have thousands of years of traditions that they hold onto so very dearly.The Food – The Chinese does everything differently. Their foods usually lack spice (which is taken separately if needed most of the time) in order to retain the flavor of the actual meat. But having said that I have had beef that was spicier than a Colombian dish. The variations of Chinese food are endless. Don’t be misled by the Chinese Restaurants in your country because that is definitely no match for what you will get in Mainland China.The People – The Chinese are known for their hard-work, efficiency and productivity. But that’s just the tip of the iceberg. They are the nicest and most helpful people I have seen in all my travel destinations. I was once on my way to meet someone I worked with in China and my transit got delayed by two hours. She closed the shop because I was too late, but stayed back for me to come by. Much to my surprise, I found her standing on the side of the road near the office waiting patiently. It took a long time to get through everything I needed to discuss with her. And alas, it was 1:30 in the morning when we finished up. That wasn’t the end. She invited me to have dinner with her and we all sat down, talking about how different China is from the rest of the world. With the transit back to her place and everything she would have gotten roughly an hour or two of sleep before work the next day. I don’t know how many qualities I have just talked about but all of them remarkably exceptional.The Places – Chinese Architecture is something different to what you will see in most places. Usually in the non-business centers of China. Henan Province comes to mind. The amount of ancient architecture that you will see there at any given point in time is mind boggling. China is also home to thousands of museums, each of them consisting of significant counterparts that make up for the entire lifeline of China.Diversity – I was once like most people who have never been to China. I thought that everything in China is interchangeable. But I was amazed by how much diversity I got from one city to the next. It was quite baffling how the lifestyle and the aesthetics change. In comparison the only place I could think of right now is Turkey.But all in all you just have to get there and see for yourself. I can write more, but it would not do justice to how beautiful China truly is. I hope everyone sees it that way.Passion Project - Planetgraphy | Facebook (Just for Travel Inspiration)
They are many reasons foreigners move to China. Many for its rich exotic ancient culture, many for its eccentric diversity among the country. Hospitality, tremendous amount of opportunities and the list can continue. But I will share my fair share.Population - China is 1.357 Billion yet it manages to keep its stability among its citizens. That’s a pure work of Art. It feeds its people, it promotes education, it invests in its people’s future and I think the government here is doing a fantastic job of keeping the country together.Fastest growing economy - The country was illiterate, poor and backward compared to the rest of the world up until a few decades ago, but that changed and it's changing so fast. It’s simply fascinating.Moral values - China is a collective culture, where family values, community, and everyone matters. They work hard for ultimate one goal to make the country better for the future generation. I have never seen such people so passionate and devoted to their country in the 21st century. The Chinese traditional cultural values of harmony, benevolence, righteousness,courtesy, wisdom, honesty, and loyalty.Life experience - My everyday work is a life lesson, a challenge, a new experience and a new beginning. People appreciate my hard work here as a foreigner. They do not take my work for granted and they actually appreciate for what I do for them.Entertainment - China offers the unlimitted amount of entertainment, leisure and numerous different activities for having fun. The nightclubs here are giants stadiums with IMAX 3D screen, they have things like escape rooms, unbelievable theme parks, outdoor natural parks and much more.Affordable high-quality life - If you’re professional expat, life in China can be rewarding. The economy is booming and they are a lot of opportunities available. There’s a high demand for educated professionals who are willing to step out of their comfort zone.People - Unconditional kindness, integration of the locals with foreigners, tolerance and acceptance and cheap travel within the country and Asia with high-speed train or affordable airfare are all many reasons why expats choose to live here.\If you’re serious about your career and would like to make an impact in the world. I believe China is a great destination. I am learning so many new things here, basically, you have the freedom in China to innovate, be articulate and design new ways of doing things.I love China 我爱中国
I have an answer for this that some you find ironic:The Freedom they Experience in ChinaOf course, life as an American (or European, etc) expat in China is different from the lives of native Chinese people in many ways.The life of a foreigner in China may feel more “free” due to the fact that expats don’t have family responsibilities here. A Chinese student in the USA may feel freedoms in North America that aren’t possible in China.I am a Mandarin Chinese teacher of both children and adults and many of my students are moving to China from the USA. Many of them mention that they feel more “freedom” in China than they do in the USA, despite their worries that it would be the opposite.The three freedoms that I most often hear about from foreigners in China are:Having the “freedom” to not own a car and to be able to get around on public transport. I have lived and traveled in the USA and I know that, while a car is meant to provide personal “freedoms”, we are often limited by our cars: stuck in traffic, financial burden, and cities in which walking or taking the train is not an option.Shanghai’s subways was began just 20 years ago and it’s already the largest in the world:The “freedom” of walking anywhere at any hour and not fearing for your safety. Aside from some crime such as pickpocketing, violent crime in China is minimal and especially not aimed at foreigners.Chinese cities are walkable and worry-free 24/7:The “freedom” of buying alcohol at any hour and to drink it on the street. This is something that Americans enjoy more than Chinese! In the USA there are many rules with alcohol and cigarettes- when/where you can buy and use them. In China, you can have an informal BBQ with beer out on the sidewalk without worry! While most of my students don’t smoke, the few that do seem to greatly enjoy doing it indoors at bars and restaurants.In Qingdao, you can buy “street beer” to go by weight in a plastic bag:For Chinese people, many of us want cars, don’t appreciate how safe the streets are, and would never think of drinking beer in public if not at a restaurant. However, these three points are quite refreshing if you’re coming from North America!Many of my foreign students feel that when they go back home, there are more small laws and responsibilities that don’t apply to their lives when they were here in China.Ironic, isn’t it?
I've lived for substantial time in 3 Asian cities (Singapore, Hong Kong, and Shenzhen), and they all surprised me on the upside. In the case of China, here's why I like it:it's modern, and continues to develop all the time. They have modern cities, excellent transport infrastructure (highways, airports, high-speed trains network which is unmatched in the world, excellent public transport and taxis), excellent hotels, malls, restaurants and cafes, beautiful parks, etc.There’s a feeling of safety and freedom in Chinese cities, which impress with their size. There’s no one to tell you what to do, and you can see from the behavior of the diverse crowd, people just do what they want. In most places you won't see any police. In some others they are present in security posts. They just do their job, i.e. sit there silently and behave reasonably, adding to the security and order. Do you know that police in China doesn't have firearms? They are just like a part of the crowd, only doing their job.friendliness of Chinese people. You will always get help, no matter that you can't speak a word in Chinese besides 你好, or they can't speak English. They'll spend their time and go out of their way to explain you how to get somewhere, or how to buy a train ticket, they'll patiently and enthusiastically explain how to get what you need. They'll be positive and practical all the time while helping you.they are non-dogmatic. The people are simply pragmatic and hardworking, they want to live good lives, and feel responsible for their well-being. They are not brainwashed (something which is actually more typical to Western countries, and you can see it on Quora too). The main philosophy of China is just common sense and being a good person.business is in the genes of Chinese. Small shops and restaurants are ubiquitous, which makes me think self employment and small business must be a major kind of employment. The government creates excellent business infrastructure. For example, the hi tech city area in Shenzhen is very impressive and has lots of spaces to support innovations and startups. China hosts some of world’s biggest trade shows and exhibitions. It’s easy to see trends in the world economy here.they are connected and communal. It’s easy to talk with people and make friends, especially if you are open and respectful.technologically, China is of course advanced in many ways. For example, electric transport has been very developed here for years. You can find electric bikes, personal transportation vehicles (like kick scooters or mono wheels), electric taxis and cars, even electric buses (the photo below is a bus charging station).some things are convenient. The Chinese messenger app (WeChat) is very advanced and makes it easy to make payments and much more; it’s a technology marvel. For example, in some cafes you can scan QR code on your table, which brings up the menu on your phone; you can make an order and it will be sent to your table. You can pay with your mobile phone almost everywhere, you don’t need cash or credit card. It’s fine to leave your wallet at home if you have a phone with you.still kept (and in some cases even exaggerated) some of its sweet traditions. Well, their language itself is ancient to begin with. In the very developed Chinese cities you'll see many people still trying to live simple ways. Outdoor tai chi, dragon boat festivals, traditional medicine, etc., add charm to the urban culture.it’s vast and intellectually stimulating. It’s very geographically diverse, has rich history, and Chinese are passionate about learning and self development, they’re smart and focused. I love book shops here and book cafes; Shenzhen’s central book store claims to be the largest in the world.To give a more balanced answer, I'll mention a few negatives. They are not big, but are a part of life, too:air pollution in some cities and regions. People are used to it. Most of the time it’s not terribly bad, and unfortunately air is more or less polluted in most (if not all) cities of the world. I take break from cities and travel once in a while to other countries or areas in China (such as Yunnan, Hainan) where the air is clean.internet problems. Although the networks are fast, but due to traffic monitoring some sites are blocked (Google, popular social networks, and some news sites) or work slowly. This Internet control has not only political purpose, but it's good for the development of Chinese Internet companies.you shouldn't be lazy and start learning the language and culture. It is very worthy. Although you always get help and generally friendly attitude, you need to do your part and learn at least the basics of Mandarin. Unlike in HK, in the mainland little effort is made to translate anything into English (beyond road signs and metro announcements). It pays a lot to know at least common phrases and basics of characters writing (汉字). It is a lot of fun actually.Overall, China is fast pace, generally efficient, straightforward, but you need to get used to it and learn ways of doing things. They may be not what you are used to coming from another country.
Because, as Westerners, China is the macaroni to our cheese. The yin to our yang if you will.In the West, we tend to emphasize freedom, individualism, the state being the collective wills of the several individuals under it and nothing more. Big collective pushes for ‘the Greater Good’ take the back seat unless it’s really necessary.In China, they tend to emphasize stability, collectivism, the state being a parental body that knows what is good for you even if your short-sightedness tells you otherwise. Individual rights take the back seat unless the lack thereof start to threaten stability.While we keep fighting about which extreme of the continuum is better, in reality they are two halves of a whole.Westerners travel to China and marvel at the speed and practicality with which Chinese can build massive, ultra-modern cities (regardless whether a centuries-old temple was demolished to build it or not)Chinese travel to Europe and marvel at the protected buildings of historical/heritage value preserved perfectly (tough luck if you want to build a highway that will boost economic growth, try building around Ye Olde Tavern).Westerners travel to China and marvel at the safety and efficiency among the Chinese people as the economy powers forth and people’s standard of living increases without any major glitches.Chinese travel to the West and marvel at the creativity and innovation in Western society as with its decentralized, individualistic space for people to do things differentlyI love Western culture with its Socratic approach to problems and Enlightenment values deeply as much as I love Chinese culture with its Confucian values and strong history of science, progress and love of knowledge.The reason why I think China is great is because it clearly demonstrates the strengths of an alternative to Western statecraft - just as much as the West clearly demonstrates the strengths of an alternative to Chinese statecraft. This is how we and China can both reexamine our own established political ‘operating systems’ and improve them where we can.