
Desmond CarolanThe question is somewhat strange to me. Most Chinese people do not see the PLA as their oppressors in any way, so they they do not need to "liberate themselves" from it.Certainly from talking to Chinese students both in London and Beijing, I can only agree with the view that Chinese people generally see the People's Liberation Army (PLA) in a positive light.The PLA is both admired and respected for its role in disaster relief and the fact that its soldiers are prepared to risk their lives in saving people. Several Chinese students also told me that the PLA provides a means for (mainly) young men from the poorest parts of China to escape poverty.The PLA provides them with good meals, good accommodation and clothing which they may not have had access to before joining. It moreover gives them training and skills that they can use when they leave the PLA,. Consequently, the PLA is a means of  social mobility and advancement for many people in China.In short, the Chinese People's Liberation Army is respected by the vast majority of the Chinese people for the work it does relieving the effects of natural disasters and the courage of its soldiers doing so. It also offers many young men from poor backgrounds opportunities that they otherwise would not have.
Because the PLA belongs to people.May be other country’s army established only for national territory defense or military deterrence.But in China, Chinese people know what their army do for them.When the earthquake happenThis is the PLA！When the flood come,This is the PLA！When they leavePeople thank them！What reason we have to attack them?They are our relatives.They has done too much for us……
Because we are so poor we have no money to buy weapons, if you could provide us with following weapons we will attack the PLA with all might:Joint Strike Fighter*300 F22*200,Virginia class submarine*50,Hypersonic electromagnetic rail gun*30,F2000 assault rifle*2,000,000,DG51 Arleigh Burke class guided missile destroyer*50,XM307 automatic grenade launcher*2000,The V-22 Osprey transport aircraft*500,UGM-133 Trident-II*200,000，Ford class aircraft carrier*20 .With all these and other neccessary machines and a military supply of 600 billion dollars every year, we Chinese can build a huge army to attack PLA.BTW, please lend the military bases and airports in the west Pacific and regions around China freely so we can place our men and machines.Please hand over the control of the GPS to the Chinese people so we are not blind.Let’s go and destory the evil communists!
Question question, are you from China yourself? If you are not then it would be hypocritical to assume that outsiders can think of things better for people that are in china itself. What I've learned so far is most people like to assume that democracy and “free market” is for everybody in the world. People from the outside easily judge people in other countries as unhappy with their lot. They may not allow their citizens to go out and make a fool of themselves and post it online but this does not define contentment and happiness for every person outside your social strata.Why should they attack those who are meant to help and protect them?
In response to all the sinophile answers, the name “People’s Liberation Army”, does have a rather oppressive/ominous jingle to it for westerners. More often than not, it gets confused with the Palestine Liberation Organization, which conjures up images of mideast terrorism (it certainly did for me, when i first heard the acronym, while growing up in the west). Just by changing this english name to something more mild (and nothing else), China could tremendously reduce its perceived military tensions with the west.Media is all about getting viewers attention with troll-baiting titles (Quora included), and China’s military literally hands itself on a silver platter to western-media with such an inflammatory-sounding english name. Here are some example news title i just dug up on google. Imagine how less ominous they would sound, if china’s military got rid of the PLA english moniker:Why don't chinese people attack the PLA with all their might and liberate themselves? (Yeah, down with the oppressive PLA! they’re related to the PLO right?)…Why don't chinese people attack China’s Army with all their might and liberate themselves? (Wtf has china’s army ever done to its own people recently? What an obviously stupid Quora question)People's Liberation Army ups its recruitment gameChina’s Army ups its recruitment gameXi Jinping Takes Command Of The People's Liberation ArmyXi Jinping Takes Command Of China’s ArmyPeople's Liberation Army to become most modern military by 2020China's Army to become most modern military by 2020