
The reason why I decided to live in Shanghai for such a long time is very simple: I'm happier here despite China holds some shortcomings we all know (pollution, house price, food safety, etc…).So, why am I happier here?Mainly because:I became so familiar with the city to the point I feel it's now “my place”, like a kind of second hometownI have good friends I do care aboutI have learned things that made me a better personAnd I do care a lot about personal safety. It feels great to be in a huge city where you can be free to walk around at any time of the day and without threatsEven in the past I got opportunities to go back to Europe with higher salary and better package, but I declined it. Perhaps I'm a sentimental guy, but I do mind to stay where I feel happy. Money is important but isn't everything; what matters the most is that you are in harmony with yourself, whether it's in China or any other place in the world, you should follow what you really want and what makes you feel better.On the other hand, there are many Chinese people who go abroad for study but eventually they'll move back to China at one point. At least that's what I noticed in my ten years experience here.Pursue your happiness and you'll be fine.
As someone else has commented here, many foreigners who enjoy living in China have an underlying reason/purpose for being here.Some believe it is the land of opportunity in the 21st century. They expect to come here and are willing to spend half to all of their lives trying to become successful.Some are here for experience. They think by gaining international experience in a country that is becoming more and more important for corporations, they will have an advantage over others when moving back.Some are fascinated with Chinese culture or asian anime, so they move to an Asian country.Some are here for the language. Mastering Chinese is their life long pursuit.Some are fascinated by Chinese women or men. They come here looking for a husband or wife.Some are here to get closer to their roots. They were raised by Chinese parents but lack a true connection and the experience of living in China.Talking to all of these types of foreigners in China who are positive about living here. Most of their reasoning is financial. They believe that in China, you can have a decent life and save money as well. Their above purpose is what makes them believe this is a great place to be long-term.Most Chinese people migrate for 3 main reasons. Education, Pollution, and Less Competition/More Oppurtunity. All of these reasons are because of their children to get a better life in the future - especially the first 2.
Every country has unique opportunities and unique competitive forces. Competition in China for jobs, educational opportunities, etc. is very high. They have a huge widely dispersed population and it can be difficult to differentiate yourself and get access to those opportunities. They generally emigrate to get access to unique opportunities that are a better fit for their situation or to become part of a culture that rewards particular traits, behaviors, skills, education, etc.There’s a lot of focus in China on better integrating and doing business with western companies, so there are lots of opportunities for people who can bridge those cultural gaps. In some companies, just being a Western ex-patriot can make you somewhat of a rock-star. However, if you’re a highly motivated, individualistic person from rural China without a formal education, you may find that Western culture will reward that drive and passion more than Chinese culture will.What it comes down to is that there’s no “one best country” to live or work in. It’s all very situational and has a lot to do with your personality, skills, experience, education, background, etc. People who have traits or abilities that are surplus or even detrimental in their country can often relocate to where those traits or abilities are in demand. But, there’s so much variety and diversity in people and cultures that you’ll often see traffic moving in both directions.
I’m not sure I have anything Terribly Insightful to add to the thread, but I’d like to share a brief synopsis of my time in China. I moved here at the beginning of 2015 to take a job I was very excited about. (The details aren’t important.) Here are three reasons I love living in China: 1. This may well be the warmest, most welcoming country I have ever been to outside the US. 2. Despite what one may see or hear, the urban areas are clean and modern. I mean, nothing’s perfect, but I’d rather live in Tianjin (where I am) than in most metropolitan areas in the US. (Bear in mind that my Chinese sucks, and I still feel this way.) 3. The incredible blend of complexity, diversity and thousands of years of history is absolutely fascinating. As someone else pointed out, it’s no more appropriate to think of China as a single country than it is to think about Europe or Central America as being single countries. (Central America might be the better analogy, because of the nominal homogeneity of language.)Sure, there are things that are very different, and the monolithic government and bureaucracy can be challenging - but I knew those risks when I moved here, and don’t have any bad feelings. In fact, in general, if you don’t do anything to cause public embarrassment, or embarrassment to the government, it’s actually a very liberal society.Just my opinion, but I’m happy here, and grateful to have welcomed into the country.
There are 1.4 billion people living in China, millions of Chinese people who migrate abroad won’t make a huge difference in statistic. The ratio is almost insignificant to our society, and there’s no notable relevance between the number of migrants and living standard in China. Let’s say the US: an ideal place for people who pursue business startups, job opportunities, education fulfillment and high living standard. But even in the most developed country in our planet, the number of people who abandon American citizenship every year skyrockets these years: some of them migrate abroad, some of them withdraw their business, some of them book an airline ticket back to their motherland without doubts and regrets. All nations have flaws and merits, people migrate for thousands of reasons.Millions of Chinese people migrate because they have different career orientation, lifestyle choice, education options or marriage choice. I was born and raised in China, been traveled to different countries around the world. I appreciate the advancement and superiority of western countries in educational system, environmental protection, healthcare, individual freedom and diversity of career choices, but undoubtedly the rising problems and upcoming dilemmas are jeopardizing the social structure and western values in developed countries.China is not a terrifying place to live in, I don’t want to elaborate since some other answers are quite thorough and comprehensive about it. The charisma and charm of China would be embraced if you experience it by yourself. :)