
Why is suppression of ‘Free speech’ by the Chinese government so acceptable to the Chinese people?Opinions about CCP in Quora seem to suggest that Chinese people are quite content with CCP. Now, I am not arguing for democracy or against the Chinese system, but I cannot understand how can anyone find being disallowed the right to express opinion or protest against politicians acceptable?The best defense for Free Speech in China is to Always Speak the Truth. If you are insulted by the Chinese government, publicize it on the web and you’ll get every citizen behind you.But the Chinese are not OK to be lied to. Not by the Chinese Government, not by other Chinese people, not by any foreign Government or foreigners. And not by you. You may call that ‘Free Speech’. The Chinese call it lies, and demand their government to shut you up.The Chinese are also not OK to be grossly insulted.In 2008, China suffered a magnitude 7.9 earthquake in her western mountainous region. Close to 90,000 people died. Mothers desperately tried to shield their children with their own bodies, and died entombed together. The mother was still tenderly holding her child.Sharon Stone, dressed in all her sparkles and finery, stood on the red carpet of Cannes, called it ‘karma’. China angry over Sharon Stone quake karma remarkHundreds of millions of Chinese demanded the Chinese government to ban her films and any merchandise associated with her. If this is what ‘Free Speech’ means, the Chinese don’t want it.You want to know why the Chinese not only support the Chinese government’s censorship, but demand it? Because it’s so obvious, OBVIOUS, that the likes of Sharon Stone are not on their side. You have someone literally laughing when 90,000 Chinese died in an earthquake, and then coming up with crocodile tears about ‘oh we have to fight for the poor Chinese who don’t have free speech’. The Chinese government, on the other hand, quickly mobilized 130,000 soldiers and other relief workers to attempt rescue, of which, around 200 rescuers died from ensuing aftershocks and mudslides. They gave their lives for the Chinese people.Sichuan earthquake of 2008 | ChinaWhen you call hate speech ‘free speech’, you make people hate free speech.PS: This is not an isolated event. This kind of sh*t happens continuously, and not just towards Chinese, but a continuous stream of random insult to almost any foreign country. Even the Swedes, the mellowest of all, are threatening to “go full fascist on them Yanks and ban them all”. King of Sweden stresses need for ‘serious’ media and source checking after Donald Trump’s immigration claims
Chinese people aren't OK with the censorship. People make fun of the “keyword” censorship all the time, mocking the key words with stupid alternatives. People comment on how their social media posts were removed. If someone spoke up against the government and was threatened, people will show support by reposting screenshots of their deleted words (which are harder to regulate).Just because people don't give up their life and throw themselves into some bloody resistance movement, doesn't mean they accept bad government policies.But western media doesn't report this. Chinese people making fun of their government doesn't make nearly as appealing a click-bait headline as “Chinese people intentionally kill car accident victims”.Think of it in this way: you have a life, you have a family, you have a future. And the government removes a post from your Facebook. Would you throw away everything you have to fight against the government? Even if you want to, how are you going to go about doing it? Where will you find this “underground rebel force"? Is it worth it? To give up your life, family and future, a stable job and relatively pleasant life because of one removed Facebook comment?If you won’t do it, why do you think Chinese people should do it? Because of some idealistic bullshit idea that the Chinese government is evil and there should be a bloody revolution? Why don't Chinese stand up against oppression? Why don't Russians stand up against oppression? Why don't other people stand up against oppression because you think standing up against oppression is romantic?You don't know about China. Most westerners don't, and most westerners have this rosy idea about what revolution is… hence questions like this.
Why do educated Chinese support the CCP?Because actual educated Chinese know that the CCP was single handedly responsible for turning a dirt poor backwater nation into a mighty economic superpower lifting 600 Million people out of poverty within a span of 3 decades. Without the CCP, China would have been a weak, fragmented nation.These educated people also know that the West’s criticism of China’s human rights some part cultural imperialism and some part a ploy to weaken and destabilize China. A weak fragmented China unable to challenge Western value hegemony, is ultimately in the West’s interests.The second part of your question asserts that the Chinese cannot criticize their politicians. That is a flagarant lie. Fact of the matter is, Chinese do vehemently complain about corruption and criticize policies. The only time the CCP forbids speech is when it may lead to instigation to riot, protest and destabilize any part of the nation. “Democracy, human rights” should never be a cover for destabilizing a nation, fragmenting it and making it poor.
Why do educated Chinese support CCP despite not having the freedom to criticize Chinese politicians?On August 28th, 2016, I received the following text message from the Chinese Government:党和政府庄严承诺：不让一个学生因家庭经济困难而失学！从学前儿童到研究生，都能享受国家资助政策。详情查询全国学生资助管理中心网站。【教育部宣、工信部、中国移动】The Party and the Government solemnly promise: we will not allow a single student to drop out of school because of economic reasons. From preschool to graduate school, everyone can enjoy state funds to pay for his/her education. For more details, visit National Student Financial Aids Administration website [message by Department of Education, Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, China Mobile]The CPC is promising to give education to everyone who wants it. If they pull this off, we are talking about personal empowerment through education at every level of the society. The day that everyone in China who want a decent education can get one, I will convert to the CPC's biggest fan ever.Of course, there is always a catch to any rosy promises made by politicians. I actually tried to visit the website to take a look, but the website is an epic fail. It couldn’t handle all the traffic going to the site. So, a poor student can't really visit the site for more information.A few months later, I had a conversation about this text message with a friend who works for PwC US in China. He studied Computer Science at Tongji University, one of China's best, and he came from a humble background. He was on state money all his way through college. It paid for his tuition, but he had to eat, and that's not part of the no-one-drops-out deal. Luckily, university canteens are heavily subsidized by the Chinese Government. My friend was able to support himself working part-time in the summer loading bricks at a Shanghai construction site.So, I wondered, if the website for state funds doesn't work, how the heck did he receive his money for tuition. It turns out, the Chinese Government relies on schools, and local government officials to nominate state fund recipients. Given low technology literacy across China, I guess having a functioning website wouldn't make much a difference, but it still would be nice to have a place for information online.I can't speak for 1.4 billion of my fellow Chinese compatriots, but I am not as antiestablishment as I used to be because I think China is heading toward the right direction, and marginal improvements to the system are what we need, certainly not that democratic revolution crap.On a side note, it bugs me that we have a GFW, but hey I know a thing or two about Linux command line. The CPC can’t stop me from using Shadowsocks to watch Marcus Butler doing an American accent on YouTube.I hope my reflection on the topic sort of answers your question.
On one hand, the question itself is unwarranted, Chinese people do have the freedom to criticize the government which is already explained in other comments.One the other hand, even though Chinese people don’t have this so-called free speech, why can’t they still support the government any way? What I want to say is the FREE SPEECH is just not that important, nobody is living on criticizing the government, people enjoy their own lives and who cares that much about what the hell the government is doing. Chinese people see that their lives are getting better and better, the funtamental constrution is doing well, they recieve better education and become richer day by day. These are the things people really care about.And in fact, in many parts of the western world, the free speech is superficial, is fake and useless. Ok, you can say whatever you want, but you are a fool and never count on that I will listen to you. In this sense, the free speech is like satisfaction to yourself.And, there is no real free speech in western world if you criticize people of different color of skin, different religous belives, and what if there are really some big problems in them? You can’t even say that out and never mention even solve them.What does the free speech really mean to you?And if this comment is deleted some time later, it will be a solid evidence that the western free speech is so lame.