
Yes, Guizhou is one of the poorest provinces in China . We usually use these words to describe Guizhou, 天无三日晴，地无三尺平，人无三文银，means ‘ No three days are sunny, No three foots land is flat, No three yuan people have’.Guizhou province is mountainous area, and lacks infratructure, in the past decade China goverment have done lots of job to improve it.List of Highest International Bridges/Page 1 ，quite a number of bridges are built in Guizhou province.This is per capita GDP ranking of Chinese provinces.Guizhou is the third from bottom.If you want to know about China, keep far away from chanels like ‘China Uncensored’ in Youtube, it’s trash.
Guess this video is talking about 兴义 (Xingyi). If you search it in Baidu, Chinese searching engine, you will know that it’s GDP in 2015 was 3.18 billion yuan (almost $467.6 million). Considering 848 thousands people in there, Xingyi’s per capita GDP was 37.5 thousands yuan, lower than the average of the whole nation (54 thousands yuan) but higher than the average of Guizhou Province (29.8 thousands yuan). So I think maybe Xingyi is a more modern city in Guizhou Province.However, China is now trying their best to eliminate poverty, and poor provinces are developing quickly. I believe more and more cities in Guizhou Province will be like this. Welcome to China and visit it. :)
Guizhou, like yunnan next door, are beautiful mountainous provinces with tons of ethnic diversity and relatively undeveloped. If you visit china, go to these places and you won't be disappointed. It is because they are relatively more undeveloped that makes them nice places. Farmers live more traditional lifestyles, sure it is a hard life for them and they would welcome more development, but overall they aren't unhappy. For tourists, this is a chance to see a more ideal china that haven't been yet completely transformed by development.
Sorry,the video you linked i can't watch because of Internet limit.In my view,every place has both lights and shadows.On one hand, it's poor,on the other hand,the scenery there can be very attractive.Some cities seem prosperous,there are also beggars.As a developing country,China inevitablely has some cities in extreme poverty,but eliminating poverty is on the agenda of the government,so their getting rid of poverty is on the way.Besides,China’s territory is vast,its attractive sites are also countless.The picture you think unreal may be real.If you have a tour in China,you will have a better perception.
Well, because it’s a province. A province is big. So poor areas riches areas, All you can find. That's not propaganda, who will be that boring to make everyday video to do propagandas!