
I'll provide empirical evidence as to why it is important by firstly answering with another question.Why do Jews and the West care still about the Holocaust?More people died during the Nanking massacre than did during the two A-bombs in Japan, yet the A-bombs are much more covered in Japanese history, repeatedly, than the Nanking massacre by far (or all other Japanese war atrocities for that matter).The reason being? China and Japan are in disagreement of the severity of the atrocities as well as the number of dead (mostly since few records remain from the Japanese side largely due to the Japanese burning all evidence during the end of the war). Yet westerners that were there are the biggest sources of the atrocities.*I’ll update with more information time to time*** I did a bit more digging into how the Japanese administration goes on sidelining the issue and learned the method is both simple and well thought out. They simply shift the blame when one party to the issue is asked about it and what we get in return is a triangle of denial. When the government is asked, they blame the teachers; when the teachers are asked, they blame the Education Ministry; when the Education Ministry is asked, they blame the central government. This way, people don't really know what's really going on and who's lying or not because they'll believe whomever they trust most.***EDIT*(Japanese ‘loss’ of information on the matter has much to do with the US investigation of Japan's biological warfare department and subsequent cover up of the matter due to the American interest in the data and the higher ups wanting to keep the data away from the Soviets. Initially, the US Bio warfare corps sent legal experts to investigate war crimes but was stopped by scientists of the same division, though many who initially investigated were misled by Japanese translators who were actually former members of Unit 731, and it was in later inquiries that the Joint Chiefs of staff, notably General MacArthur, decided that the info provided by the Japanese scientists were valuable for the US and decided in a conference with other US department heads to withhold the information in top secret intelligence channels and not submit them to War Crimes programs.Source: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc...The reason why this info is relavent to the matter is simply that during investigations for Unit 731’s crimes, the Allies had no whitnesses who could testify, since documents were kept hidden or destroyed, compared to the Nuremberg trials where there were many witnesses who could testify. This is due to the fact that the Japanese military scientists left no survivors who could testify in part for Chinese lives lost. The only few relavent prosecutions that were carried out were only based on American POW accounts that Americans were tested on. Aside from that, it seems the lives of non-Americans didn't matter as much to the administration. In the case of Nanjing, if the Americans authorities pushed further on the matter then proper justice would have prevailed but they didn't, unlike in Europe. This is also a great source on the matter:https://www.archives.gov/files/i...There was ample evidence to prosecute but most came out to the public after the trials ended.*Unlike in Europe where one central repository of information and prosecutions took place, War crimes trials against the Japanese were conducted by America, the USSR, Republic of China, People’s Republic of China (after 1949), the Filipinos, the British, the Dutch, the French, and even the Portuguese (they had Chinese possessions, mainly Macau, and other colonies in the region) and Australians (Mostly having to do with those capture by the Australian and New Zealand armies) independently of each other. Thus, the American government saw no need to have a single repository of Japanese war crimes due to soviet involvement and didn't pursue them aggressively since they saw Japan as a gift of sorts to use as a buffer against Communism in the Far East. Though, it was America that had captured the wartime administration who were the most heinous criminals, yet they were let go due to ‘lack’ of evidence and the need for a strong Japan. Both the ROC and PRC tried Japanese War criminals in the hundreds. The soviets, however, did capture 6 members of Unit 731 when they entered Manchuria and put them on trial and later handed over hundreds of other Japanese war criminals to the PRC in 1949 for prosecution, but America brushed them off as being “propoganda” most of the time, even if they were legitimate prosecutions.“Although many notorious war criminals went unpunished and lived prosperous and prestigious lives, it is important to recognize that thousands of Japanese war crimes were prosecuted. Twenty-eight Class A war criminals accused of crimes against peace, conventional war crimes, and crimes against humanity included many of Japan’s wartime leaders, such as Prime Minister Gen. Tōjō Hideki. The Tokyo War Crimes Tribunal, the counterpart of Nuremberg, began in May 1946 and ended in November 1948 with the conviction of twenty-five of these defendants. Seven, including Tōjō, were hanged, sixteen were sentenced to life imprisonment (of whom four died in prison), and two received lesser terms. Of the three remaining, two died during the proceedings, and one was declared unfit for trial. The Japanese government paroled all those imprisoned by 1956 and the Foreign Ministry released them unconditionally in April 1958. Allied nations also held war crimes trials throughout Asia and the Pacific. Americans, British, Australians, Dutch, French, Filipinos, and Chinese held trials at forty-nine locations between October 1945 and April 1956. The British prosecuted numerous Japanese for war crimes in Southeast Asia, including those involved in the construction of the Thai- Burma railway of death, immortalized as the Bridge over the River Kwai. Australian prosecutors worked in conjunction with British and American courts to bring Japanese to justice and tried large numbers of Japanese at Amboina, Dutch East Indies, and at Rabaul, New Britain. China tried at least 800 defendants, including some involved in the Nanjing massacre. France and the Netherlands tried several hundred more. The French brought to justice a Japanese civilian on Java who forced dozens of women into prostitution for the military authorities, and the Dutch condemned Japanese to death for the murder of indigenous people and Dutch prisoners. In late 1949 at Khabarovsk, the Soviet Union also put twelve Japanese on trial for biological warfare crimes—six were members of Unit 731, two of Unit 100, an independent biological warfare entity, and four from elsewhere—and later transferred several hundred Japanese ex-servicemen suspected of war crimes to the People’s Republic of China, where Chinese authorities judged them in the mid-1950s. Of 5,379 Japanese, 173 Taiwanese, and 148 Koreans tried as class B and C war criminals for conventional crimes, violations of the laws of war, rape, murder, maltreatment of prisoners of war, about 4,300 were convicted, almost 1,000 sentenced to death, and hundreds given life imprisonment.”“The total number of Chinese deaths in Nanjing remains a subject of dispute. While the Chinese government and historians insist that some 300,000 Chinese were massacred by the Japanese in and around Nanjing—a figure from the postwar trials in Nanjing— Japanese historians have offered different estimates ranging from thousands to over 100,000. Significantly, newly discovered Japanese documents, which include the diaries of several key commanders as well as official war journals from one-third of all the Japanese regiments involved in that battle, indicate that at least tens of thousands of disarmed Chinese soldiers were executed by Japanese troops at the order of their commanders. As a result, in the mid-1980s, a representative of the veteran group Kaikōsha offered an apology to the Chinese people on its behalf.In addition to the Rape of Nanking, the “ three All” Campaign—for “Kill all, burn all, loot all,” the Chinese description of the Japanese Army’s tactics in attacking Communist guerrilla forces in north China—has long been central in Communist China’s history of the war against Japan. Many earlier studies relied solely on the testimonies of Chinese victims and survivors. Only recently have historians in Japan begun to systematically study anti-guerrilla operations in north China, including such practices as creating a “no- man’s land” by corroborating Japanese sources with Chinese evidence. The Japanese use of biological and chemical weapons (to be discussed later) and the bombing of China’s wartime capital Chongqing have become an issue for Chinese historians and activists.”(https://www.archives.gov/files/i...)This one paragraph captures why it's important to pressure the Japanese government to be held fully accountable for war crimes:“When confronted by advocacy and human rights groups, the Japanese government insisted these issues had been settled by stipulations of the peace treaty signed in San Francisco in September 1951. Nothing more needed to be said on the matter. Not only did Japanese authorities refuse to acknowledge any wartime responsibility, but several conservative politicians and senior bureaucrats went so far as to publicly denounce the accusations as groundless historical revisionism and Japan bashing. There was, of course, a domestic political dimension to the accusations (no candidate from the conservative ruling party, the LDP, could win an election by blaming Japan for a war of aggression), but the hard- line offcial Japanese position created the impression in the United States that Japanese war crimes and related subjects such as war guilt or the role of Emperor Hirohito in the war were taboo subjects in Japan.”)Witness to War: 'War orphan' recounts feeling of abandonment (This article is about a Japanese citizen who was relocated to Manchukuo close to the end of the war and her story of how the Japanese government abandoned them in China with no way home and even those who did make it back to Japan received very little help from the Japanese government to compensate for the brainwashing and horrors of war they experienced. And these are Japanese being treated bad by their own government, so it's no surprise that the Japanese government and military would treat Chinese and other Asians as being beneath them.)Japanese War Orphans and the Challenges of Repatriation in Post-Colonial East Asia (This one talks about the story of Japanese “orphans” who were left behind by the Japanese government in Manchuria and their story and hardships. It's important to understand that horrible things happened in the war and the Japanese government didn't care for Japanese lives outside Japan proper either)The other factor is that Japan has issued statements on “Great remorse” and ‘apologies’ which people feel aren't sincere enough, which is also due to the fact that on several occasions the Japanese Ministry of Education has tried to sugarcoat history books and tell publishers to not depict “dark history” of Japan or to change entire sentences, such as the Japanese aggression in China to the Japanese advance into China.Source:Examining the Japanese History Textbook ControversiesIn fact, many people are unaware that the 89′ Tiananmen Square student protest was actually the second of such protests.The one prior to it in 85′ was also a student protest to then Japanese Prime Minister Yasuhiro’s visit to the Yasukuni Shrine (Japanese War Memorial) as well as a textbook controversy back then too.This is interesting read:https://digitalarchive.wm.edu/bi...Nanjing Massacre - Facts & Summary - HISTORY.comThe Nanjing Massacre: Scenes from a Hideous Slaughter 75 Years Ago | TIME.com (Not for the squirmish)THE RAPE OF NANKING (1937) OR NANJING MASSACRE(This article by an Australian source talks about how the Nanjing Massacre is the most well documented atrocity due to the presence of Westerners who documented the slaughters)And for those with access to google and YouTube, a simple search for “ nanking massacre” or “Nanjing massacre” or even “Rape of Nanking” will provide you with more than enough videos recorded by westerners who were in Nanjing, including the most notable one by US missionary in Nanjing, John Magee.Edit: I find it relevant to add a little information about the war in the Pacific front from the perspective of China with historical information, since the most over spoken accounts are almost all American when it comes to the Pacific theater in the Western historical minds.Here are some historical info on the Chinese part of the war that is being ‘rediscovered’ by the West:The 'Chinese Schindler' who saved thousands of JewsForgotten ally? China's unsung role in World War IIMassacres and Atrocities of WWII in the Pacific Region(This talks about the various crimes of the Japanese during the onset of the war in 1931 when Japan invaded Manchuria)Imperial Japan - history-of-ww2(This link is importnant in that it shows how Japan's expansion and war was more prominently controlled by its military under Tojo than the Emperor or the central government, both of which were fairly weak during the time due an internal war between Japanese liberals and ultra-conservatives - the ultra-conservatists (ultra-nationalists) won. Japan was ruled by the military, meaning the massacres were systematic because they were ordered by the military)Here is a quote from the article that talks about how the military came to power:“Between 1928 and 1932, Japan faced domestic crisis. Economic collapse associated with the Great Depression provoked spiralling prices, unemployment, falling exports and social unrest. In November 1930, the Prime Minister Hamaguchi Osachi was shot by an ultra-nationalist. In summer 1931, as control slipped away from the civilian government, the army acted independently to invade Manchuria. Troops quickly conquered the entire border region, establishing the puppet state of Manchukuo. Though the League of Nations condemned the action, it was powerless to intervene, and Japan promptly withdrew its membership. International isolation fed ultra-nationalism. Mayors, teachers and Shinto priests were recruited by ultra-nationalist movements to indoctrinate citizens.In May 1932, an attempt by army officers to assassinate Hamaguchi’s successor stopped short of becoming a full-blown coup, but ended rule by political parties. Between 1932 and 1936, admirals ruled Japan. Within government, the idea of the ‘Greater East Asian Co-Prosperity Sphere’ emerged. This plan called for Asian unification against western imperialism under Japanese leadership, leading to Asian self-sufficiency and prosperity. In reality, it meant an agenda of Japanese imperial domination in the Far East.”** I wanted to add a bit more, since the quote talks about the puppet state of Manchukuo. This is where the infamous Unit 731 (the Imperial Army’s Biological warfare unit) was based.They did many heinous experiments on Chinese (all of whom they regarded as “logs”) which was later covered up by the American government when the war ended and the US needed a strong Japan to counter Communist China.(And yes, many of the people who did these heinous experiments are prominent doctors in their fields now)Here are some sources on it:A New Look at Japan’s Wartime Atrocities and a U.S. Cover-UpUnmasking Horror -- A special report.; Japan Confronting Gruesome War Atrocity (from 1995)Human bones could reveal truth of Japan's 'Unit 731' experimentsQ. and A.: Gao Yubao on Documenting Unit 731’s Brutal Human Experiments70 years on, Unit 731's wartime atrocities fester in China's memory | The Japan TimesThis matter also concerns American POW’s who were also experimented on and appalled by the fact that their own government covered up the crimes and let Japan off the hook.Japan revisits its darkest moments where American POWs became human experimentsNew Kyushu museum breaks taboo with POW vivisection display | The Japan TimesJapanese veteran admits vivisection tests on PoWsTruth Emerging on Ailing POWs, Japan Germ Unit**EDIT: PART 2**So I currently live with two Japanese exchange students from Osaka and Oita areas and when I asked them about such things their reply was “wtf?! Is this for real??? We never learned about this! How can the government just cover this up?”They genuinely didn't know about the wrong doings of the military during the war or that their government was hiding it behind smoke and mirrors. They also said that it was a total shock for them when they first learned about it in history classes here and that they didn't cover such things in detail at all in their history classes in Japan. They also said their teachers just said that something bad happened in Nanjing and made no mentions of other things.
Germany Chancellor Willy Brandt’s famous Warschauer Kniefall to apologise for Holocaust.Former Japanese Prime Minister Junichirō Koizumi’s dressed up to visit Yasukuni Shrine to mourn convicted war criminals.The current Japanese Prime Minister Shinzō Abe.We can forgive but we will never forget. But Japanese government won’t let us.It’s 300,000 lives, you are asking why we still care. We are human beings, not monsters.
Chinese has been hearing voices from Japan arguing that "Nanking Massacre" is a hoax, a fabrication, a war-time propaganda! And the activities of Japanese military in Nanking were in accordance with international law and were humane! Some even published a book arguing that the Tokyo Tribunal was “victor's justice” only 2,000 deaths for the entirety of the massacre!SHAMELESS!!But IT’S ALRIGHT NOW, Chinese WILL NOT care about the Nanjing massacre anymore~Back in 2015, the United Nation Education, Science and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) has officially added China's Nanjing Massacre Documents in its Memory of the World Register.WOOO~HOO~ Case Closed
This question is not directed at me by virtue of me not being Chinese (I am Vietnamese). Also, none of my family relatives experienced neither oppression nor brutality the Japanese demonstrated so conspicuously in WW2.But I DO CARE about the Nanking massacre. It was in my first quarter of college in America. I had attained a sufficient level of English proficiency to start reading books written in English. I stumbled upon this book in a Barnes and Nobles store:The Rape of Nanking: The Forgotten Holocaust of World War II: Iris Chang: 8601300280783: Amazon.com: BooksThe content of book, in particular the graphic depiction of the murder, rape committed by the Japanese during 6 weeks of butchery at Nanking, engendered in me the deepest shock and anger. What provoked in me so much hatred was not only the number of victims murdered but also the manner in which the Japanese murdered them.Here are some examples of the acts of extreme barbarism perpetrated by the Japanese during the massacre:1/ Gang raped and impaling the vaginas of Chinese women and girls with sharp objects such as bamboo sticks, golf clubs, beer bottles, or sometimes even firecrackers.2/ Age did not shield female civilians from rapes. The Japanese could rightfully be regarded as the worst child rapists in the entirety of ww2 when they violated girls as young as 8–10 years old. They even violated the elderly above 80 years of age, nuns, university professors. Especially gruesome was the treatment inflicted on young girls. Because of their not-yet-mature bodies, the Japanese used knives to slice open their genitals to facilitate the rapes. According to eye witnesses, “the blood-stained, swollen and ruptured area between the girls’ legs created a disgusting scene difficult for anyone to look at directly”.3/ Live burial of thousands of people.4/ Burying people to waist-level in the ground and let German shepherds tear them apart.5/ Nailed women to the walls and brutalized or violated them6/ Suspended people by the tongues on the meat hooks and bayoneted them to death7/ Degraded entire families by forcing fathers to rape their daughters, brothers to rape their sisters, sons to rape their mothers. Anyone who defied would immediately be murdered.8/ Engaged in recreational beheading contest to break the monotony of murder (Contest to kill 100 people using a sword - Wikipedia)9/ Sliced open the abdomen of pregnant women and ripped out the unborn fetuses for amusement.And numerous more horrendous acts of sadism and brutality can be found throughout the book.After reading the book, my attitude toward the Japanese turned 180 degree. Whatever good will, respect and compassion I used to have for them died after reading the Rape of Nanking book and numerous other accounts of Japanese war crimes.What intensifies my anger and hatred toward them is the fact that they live in denial until this day. They painstakingly distort history by misrepresenting the Nanking massacre as merely Nanking incident, and insist that only a few thousands or at most tens of thousands had died compared to the Red Cross’s statistics which indicated that 250000 and 300000 Chinese civilians and POWs had been murdered. In addition, they painstakingly censor details of all of their shameful atrocities, including the Nanking massacre, from history textbook so that the young generation of the Japanese will remain unaware of the atrocities. As the final insult, the Japanese continue to honor the war criminals enshrined at Yasukuni. That is no different from honoring Adolf Hitler and his henchmen in the middle of Berlin.Just like the Jews never want to forget the Holocaust, the Koreans never want to forget the humiliation under Japanese rule and the Comfort women, the Chinese can be pardoned for caring so much about an atrocity characterized by extreme brutality, sadism, and cruelty.My deepest condolence to the Chinese men, women whose lives were cruelly extinguished by the Japanese.
Because if you are human human, you will never forget the shock and the hit to your heart (if you have a righteous heart) when you first learned about those brutal deeds, especially when it happened to your people, your kind.What haunts you is more than such crimes as manslaughter, rape, but rather the lost of humanity to beast insanity under the cover of war, if you ever learned what had happened, not just a big volume of people were killed. It is not about the killing, it is more about how they were killed, raped, hurt, or tortured, and those victims were civilians, unarmed, without self-defense skills. Animals hunt for food, because they need to survive, it’s a birthright. But a group of soldiers who were ordinary persons like you and me, killed for joy or for no reason with extremely brutal means (beyond description of any language), or could not show minimum sympathy as a human.In Chinese history, Chinese people had witnessed stories about human eating human fleshes during war, or starvation, whether ethnic invasions in Han people’s land, or Chinese conquering other territories, but nothing had been so humanless as what they did , except for some individual lunatics or some brutal punishments implemented by the rulers that had existed for a reason, to punish crimes and enhance their rulings. But what they did, was a shere doing of anti-humanism.The above explains why we remember, and can also explain why Japanese keep denying those evildoings. Because they haven’t found a way to explain to their younger generations why their kind could have done that. It’s a normal but unacceptable response that when you can’t explain, you lie or deny, in this case, to their younger generations.Just like, if someone’s father is a very bad guy, in the jail, the mother might lie to her child that “your father died in an accident” or “your father left us without reason”, but wouldn’t talk too much about it. Lack of real courage to tell the truth. A self-deception, an absolute lie. And in this case, it’s not affecting only one family or one country, it has an effect internationally and even on the whole humanity.Just answer this question, there were multiple foreign powers combating in China during that time, why only Japanese were remembered as the evildoers by Chinese? Did China have one single reason to frame them?And, when you couldn’t explain what happened, or you couldn’t accept it, at least warn or alarm your young generation that such deeds, if they did happen, they were evil, you should never do it, because you deserve humanity.