
One's reputation is what other people think of you when they really don't know that well; not personally, at least.  Do Japanese think bad things of foreigners?  Statistically, of course some do.  But rather than focus on whether those thoughts are "good" or "bad," it's more useful first to remember that they think of non-Japanese as foreigners, as outsiders, as the kind of people who will never be "the same" as them (as Japanese) because they (foreigners) can't be "the same."At his retirement party, a former bureaucrat in my office wanted to think of the nicest thing he could say to me.  He settled on, "You're the most Japanese foreigner I've ever met."To the extent that Japanese feel (quite justifiably) "good" about their nation, their culture, their countrymen, they have a range of  impressions of outsiders that starts at sympathetic pity and can go as far as scorn or contempt.    I mean, what do you say to people who just don't "get it," and never will?  And what if they don't even speak the same language as you?You'll hear a lot about the harmony in Japanese society, and the reason behind that is the fact that Japan's society is hierarchically structured.  Japanese will be very quick to explain that this hierarchy is basically vertical, up/down, parent/child, leader/follower, master/apprentice.  So in a sense, all foreigners have basically "broken into line."  And it's not hard to imagine how distressing it is (for some, not for all Japanese) to see clueless wonders waltz into their country and try to show how "with it" they are, or worse, try to show Japanese how to get "with it."Now, what most Japan watchers won't tell you is how quickly Japanese will return to "normal" after a problem gets resolved.  Apologizing in Japanese involves a show of contrition, but more than that, a sincere request that includes a recognition that the listener let the transgression pass.  In other words, to apologize automatically puts the listener in a superior position.  The "gomen" in "Gomen nasai" literally asks for the listener's indulgence and good graces to allow the speaker's misdeed to pass.And this is the real problem with most non-Japanese in Japan.  Most Westerners are most comfortable with a horizontal approach to relationships, and once someone shows regret and resolve not to repeat something wrong, things should go back to how things were.  Many (not all) Japanese see this as pure cheek.  Once someone has been humiliated, they should stay humble, and most Westerners just don't.Crossed signals are the basis for most intercultural problems, and Japanese run into this crossed signal over and over.  After growing up in Japan, you have think about 3 miles outside the box to understand the difference between vertical and horizontal societies, and usually only the Japanese who have spent a fair amount of time abroad can come to grips with this- it's really no easy task for Westerners to put the shoe on the other foot, either.One other important point to mix into this perpetual mismatch is the strong strain of practical attitudes Japanese share.  One and a half centuries ago, some Japanese (including the emperor) honestly felt that Japan could (and should) be kept "pure" of foreign influences, of foreigners' presence in Japan.  Today, Japan imports 99% of its fossil fuels and 60% of its food.  Unless the country could stop using gasoline and diesel fuel cold turkey PLUS do without at least one meal a day, this desire for a "pure" country is no longer tenable.  So except for the Japanese who welcome all foreigners with open arms, there is at least a strain of "Oh look, another foreigner.  Oh well..." running in their minds. When the country's prosperity seemed on an unstoppable rise in the 1980s, there was an unmistakeable increase in the government's willingness to allow long term residency to foreigners- the JET Program is a prime example of this.  In the decade or so before 9/11, Japan was welcoming more and more visitors as long term residents.  Right after 9/11, the number of permanent visas issued slowed to a very small fraction of what it was, and it hasn't changed since then.So in the last decade and change, the only people who have shown up in Japan looking to stay more than 3 months (the typical tourist visa limit) have a necessary skill that (most) Japanese don't.  Other than foreign language (meaning English, mostly), IT, software development, and the cutting edge of crucial sciences, about the only other options to stay here long term have been as a missionary (a niche, at best) or as a tax-paying spouse of a Japanese national (a Catch 22- try paying taxes if you're not employed).Those non-Japanese who are lucky enough to be well known in their communities sometimes suffer from Superstar Syndrome, and the locals just give each other knowing looks behind their backs.  Others who can stay reasonably modest, learn to walk the walk and talk the talk, keep their noses clean, raise a family that can also fit in with their community, and can learn to live with sideways glances and small children pointing at them... are rare, the exceptions that prove the Japanese rule:  if you're not already one of us, you probably never will be.Laufcadio Hearn is recognized all over the world (I first heard of him from a Soviet citizen from Alma Ata) for his insights into Japanese culture and literary achievements in bringing those insights to print.  Hearn married a Japanese lady and took Japanese citizenship which included changing his name.  But today, even in Japan, he is still better known as Hearn than Yakumo; he is still little more than a geekish outsider.
To a degree: yes.Generally speaking, as a foreigner in Japan, you are under a usually imperceptible - but nonetheless constant - form of mild observation. Note that with less than 5% foreigners present in Japan, you are a bit of an oddity to begin with. And if you are sitting in some metro car, it's not wrong to assume that a good number of people will be constantly throwing glances your way. Usually while you aren't looking. For some foreigners, this can (and has) even lead to forms of borderline paranoia.​Now, mind - mostly, this is not because people would expect you to suddenly stand up, whip out a gun and start screaming&shooting or something. Mostly. No, instead, the reason here is that Japan is a sociotope with tons of invisible rules. Some of them are "only" unspoken, while others are so implicit that even a Japanese would rarely be consciously aware of them - and yet he instinctively acts on them. As a foreigner who did not grow up there, you will be breaking these constantly.Not because you intend to be rude - no, you just can't help it. You don't know most of them, and even the few you might know can be hard to use properly sometimes. Maybe because you pass people on the "wrong side" on the sidewalk. Maybe because you aren't aware that the controller in the tram line comes every 30min and don't take out your tickets in advance. Maybe because you haven't internalized the iron rule to set your cellphone to mannaa moodo as soon as you board a train. Maybe you don't even know what mannaa moodo is.And so on...Accordingly, the Japanese around you will - usually rightfully - expect you to be a  source of constant tiny but inevitable troubles. This is anathema to  the general Japanese notion that people are supposed to be aware of and even  anticipate the needs of everybody around them, to allow smooth  interaction.In other words, you are a constant micro-disturbance in the harmony-optimized Japanese social ether.And that's the biggest part of why people throw you glances. On one hand they are indeed a bit uneasy around you, on the other they always ready themselves to fill the gaps, to pick up your slack... often so well that you won't even notice most of your tiny transgressions. Now, it's up to you whether you consider that "bad reputation", but the result is pretty much the same. That being said, there are also a few more extreme aspects to this "foreigner attention": All trappings of the modern world aside, some (especially older) Japanese still hold very traditional, often fairly Japan-centric world views. To the point that some of these views may seem provincial or even silly to the modern eye. But they exist, and you will be judged by them. And like it or not, no matter where you go in Japan, you will always be a blatant stranger. And of course strangers are, by provincial default, suspicious. Who knows why they are here?!Who knows what they might do?!Even more so if it's a 30ish male who apparently travels alone (like me). Of course no one will ever walk up to you and straight-out ask you what the heck you are doing in his street/park/whatever. But hey, it never hurts to be careful, you know...?In the worst case, this can sometimes lead to some quite awkward moments. Which is especially painful for foreigners who generally feel an affection towards Japan.Anecdotal but illustrative case:In 2009 on the second day of my first Japan vacation, I was visiting Tokyo Tower. Back then it was still a top-3 sightseeing spot in Tokyo (today the Skytree is more popular, but I digress). ​As you can see, there is a little bit of greenery around the base of the tower, maybe not quite enough to be called a real park, but enough to have a handful of tree-covered pathways, a playground and a few benches.Fate wanted it that I mixed up two streets and first missed the normal road that leads up the tiny hill the tower stands on. And so I found myself in the park-like part on the far side. There were some pigeons, a kindergarten class playing on the playground, and a few people sitting here and there on the benches.I was standing around looking for some passageway that might take me to the tower base, when a movement caught my eye. I saw how the young female kindergarten teacher had quickly positioned herself between me and the playground - and was now straining to usher the kids to play on the attractions on the other side of the ground. And that playground was  at least 50m away. What I can't forget is the expression on the young woman's face. It was concern. And fear. Granted, I stand 1m 95cm (6''4) tall. But never in my whole life have I felt so much like a boogeyman. That one hurt. Especially for someone who was still new to Japan and brimming with positive feelings towards that country and its people.
For the most part, yes. I've lived here in japan for a decade and I can say unequivocally that mis-perceptions and preconceptions abound, and many are reflective or are a result of this bad rep. From strangers, it will generally be presumed that you, the rare foreigner in their midst, are ignorant of everything having to do with Japanese culture, proper behavior and stellar citizenship, and the onus will be placed on you to dispel the reputation that precedes you. It matters not if you're a tourist or expat. In the public, particularly if you're a conspicuous minority (which exempts many Chinese and Koreans, etc) you are simply a gaijin or kokujin (black guy), a curiosity or exotic at best (if you can call that good...some do) and ignorant (of their language and customs), threatening (to their meticulously arranged way of life and often difficult to fully grasp approach to things, and sometimes even a danger to their belongings) or simply strange, at worst. This is not to say that this "reputation" is entirely unearned or the result of media - portrayals which have been, for the most part, unflattering (to put it mildly). There are a number of foreigners here that treat Japan like a cultural theme park and show the natives about as much respect as you'd show the staff at Disneyland. And those are the not-so-bad ones. They don't bother to learn about the culture or language, and gaijin smash their way around. So this explains some of these preconceptions, replete with negative attributes, that have proliferated over the years. But for those of us who have put in the time and work to assimilate as much as a foreigner can into Japanese society, it can be infuriating and hurtful to be lumped in with that disreputable and disrespectful lot simply because we share the same skin color or nationality. But that's Japan--and most countries where you find yourself among the minority--for better or for worse. But, god help me, I still dig it here and hold no regrets for I've learned a lot about myself and humanity in the process.
You can say that any foreigner in any country has a "reputation" based on stereotypes and influences from the media and rumors that are kept going throughout about their culture. Even though there are reputations, don't let it keep you from possibly going to Japan. For Americans, it's being "loud, noisy, and too proud". Even before I left for Japan, I was told by an expert on international relations that most people see Americans as super loud people. In the case of being an American in Japan, that aspect CAN stick out rather quickly, especially in situations where we're used to being able to talk or be acceptably loud. Japanese culture is a low-context culture: in other words, there's expectations that you should already know about the situation or topic before being in there. Like another answer below, there's been mention of "mana modo" マナモード, while simply means "Manner Mode". It's not only a setting on your cell phone, in which we call it "Silent Mode" in the US, but it's also a concept for public transportation. I rode the train and bus daily. If you take a moment to look around, you can see that the Japanese people are all silent and to themselves. No small talk or chit-chat: the same applies to the trains as well. In my experience, if you start talking, people will look at you, mainly the older generation. They won't say anything, but the glance is their passive way of saying "hey, stop that". Japanese culture in general in a culture that stresses the need to be selfless and considerate of others. The silence on public transportation sustains this long-held ideology in their culture and is one of those things in the culture that's an unspoken rule (no pun intended). The best way to beat bad reps or stereotypes is best described in this quote "When in Rome, do as the Romans do", in this case, do as the Japanese do. Be polite, kind, and silent. There are always going to be those who choose to be mindful and beat the reputation, and there will be those who don't care.
An emphatic noI'm quite surprised by all the 'yes' answers here. Maybe my definition of foreigner is different from the rest. I have seen people in most countries have an extra soft corner for western folk and maybe you find this privilege missing in Japan. Being an Indian and having done a good deal of travelling around Asia and also having interacted with a lot of western folk as well, I have found this question relevant to some extent in almost all countries other than Japan!I spent almost 2 months last summer in Osaka and did a good deal of travelling around Kyoto, Tokyo, Fuji. I had the most amazing bunch of colleagues, made a lot of friends, stayed with Japanese families, worked with them, went to a lot of parties and never felt out of place.Be it the guy who swept the floor everyday outside the railway station, the cook who served me food in the dining room, the random shopkeeper, they would always wish me and smile at me. They were so open to talk to me even with the limited English they knew.Random stories:I am climbing Mt.Fuji alone, an old Japanese guy comes along and starts a conversation. He told me he was 66 and this is his 7th climb. We climb along chatting for about an hour. He bids goodbye with a comment on me having young feet and asks me to go along at my own pace.I am at Osaka castle trying to figure out the local park map. A guy comes by, helps me with the directions, walks with me as we talk about the history of the place, he enthusiastically listens to my Indian tales. As we say goodbye, he gifts me one of his origami creations and a miniature card pack!I am at Gion, Kyoto trying to figure out how much the tickets cost to Osaka. A lady walks by, buys me tickets, helps me get on the right train, we exchange Facebook ids, she happens to be a student in travel and journalism, gives me tips on offbeat travel destinations, takes me to a great food joint at Osaka station, we part ways after dinner.A new conversation in every rail journeyNow come on, you don't get such treatment from strangers if you have a bad reputation!