
Despite what we hear about Yakuza in Japanese media, their lifestyle appears to be different from what most of us think. (myself included.)Here is a story I heard from my father-in-law.My-father-in law runs a small restaurant in a rural area of Japan for the past 30 years. It's located in the even remote part of the town.Because of the restaurant's location, many customers come to avoid the crowd in the city for a nice quiet sit down meal.(food is very good by the way)Naturally and eventually, some Yakuza members discovered this quiet establishment, for they too need a place to eat lunch and dinner to avoid crowds. So, they started to come to the restaurant frequently.Now, my father-in-law is quite a big man for his generation: at the age of 80, he is 183cm (6'1") tall and weighs 100kg (220lbs). Thanks to his physical feature, he is not easily intimidated, even by the Yakuza.When one of the Yakuza members noticed his missing pinky finger, their mode suddenly changed. Missing pinky is a sign of Yakuza - whenever they commit a serious mistake (among their organization), it's their custom to cut their finger off."Hey grandpa, what did you do?" one of the Yakuzas asked."What do you mean?""Your index finger.""Oh this? My finger got caught in the electric winch on my boat.""Your boat?""Yes, I am a fisherman also. I go and catch fish and sell, when the restaurant is not so busy.""You are not Ex-Yakuza?""No. Are you?""Yes, we are. We thought you were because your index finger is missing. We thought you slept with your boss's wife or girlfriend. That's when we must cut our index finger. We normally cut our pinky for the mistakes. We thought you were reckless and courageous, worth admiring.""Really? Why courageous?""Because you are reckless, we thought.""Why is it good to be reckless?""Because we cannot be. Police know what we are doing and where we are. They always have their eyes on us. Ordinary people put a petition together and force us to move out of the town. We cannot go to ordinary stores and Onsens (Japanese public hot springs prohibit a person with a tattoo to enter the bath because many of Yakuza members have tattoos.)""How about all the other crimes and drug dealing we hear on the news?""Those are committed by the younger guys. They have too much energy and ambition, and they will do almost anything to prove their worthiness. They become yakuza because they don't want to deal with the rules set by the "ordinary" world, and the fact is that, there are some rules in the Yakuza world, our own rules. We've been living in this world and we learned and adapted those rules, so we know better than committing a small stupid crime you hear and see on TV. We almost never kill ordinary people or other Yakuza family members because, as I said, police are watching every move we make. Once we kill someone, they will know, so, it's hard to kill someone without getting caught. In fact, police can arrest any of us any time and shut us down by arresting majority of our members. We think that’s harassment. We need as many members as we can to survive as a Yakuza organization. We never deal drugs because for one, it's really difficult to import into Japan. Even if we could, it's hard on the buyers/users because drugs destroy their lives and quite often, their families too. In fact, it's hard on us. Think about it. Your product kills your customer. How would you feel to serve your food, knowing it's going to kill us for sure? That's hard as a person to watch.""Really? It sounds like you guys live in a very restricted world.""Yes, it's very restricted. The challenge is that at the same time, we have to behave in the way to meet people's expectations.""What expectations?""Well, most people who do not know Yakuza think we are loud, reckless and dangerous like running around loose, engaging in all kinds of illegal activities. In fact, that's not what we do. We do jobs ordinary people don't want to do. Things that are in the "gray area" - they can turn either legal or illegal, and someone has to do them. Ordinary people come to ask us to perform those jobs because, for whatever the reason, they are unable to do, like extortion. That's when we come in. Also, because of people's expectations, in the view of the general public, we have to pretend and act like the stereotypical image of what Yakuza should be: loud, fearsome and reckless. We have to throw loud parties in our office so that people will notice us and be fearful of us. But most of the time, we live quietly because otherwise, there will be no more place for us to live. Truth be told, many of us actually do live in fear, as we feel being separated from the society.""Sounds like it's a tough life.""Yes, it's tough, and probably tougher than yours. So that is why I'd never recommend anyone to become a Yakuza."
 To an average law abiding person walking down the street? Not much of a threat at all. But that kind of masks the stature and scope of the Yakuza.The Yakuza is the world's largest organized crime group, with an estimated 60,000 members (some estimates put that at 100,000).  There are 22  families  known as boryokudan (roughly translated as  violence groups), of which the most powerful are the Yamaguchi-gumi, the Sumiyoshi-kai, and the Inagawa-kai.  The Yakuza's stature in Japan is stunning in its breadth.  They operate a huge portion of Japan's nightclubs, love hotels, gambling pits, casinos  and prostitution services.  They have tentacles into the national government and major corporations.  They have chapters in numerous countries around the world including the US, where they run heroin and opium.  They have a special division responsible for corporate blackmail. Crime has a very different character in Japan. There is very little in the way of street crimes, and the rate of murder and other violent crimes are low (except for sex crimes).  But the boryokudan kill each other on a regular basis, and the murders are often unsolved, despite the high clearance rate for most crimes.Prostitutes can be virtual sex slaves, sometimes kidnapped from other countries.  And while intercourse for pay is illegal, polls say that as many as 40% of Japanese men have paid for sex. And the Yakuza owns the trade, along with the huge kiddie porn market. And part of the reason that Japan's street are so safe, is that the Yakuza helps maintain order.  But they do murder people.  Authorities estimate that the Yakuza is responsible for about 15% of the murders in the country, about half the rate of the 1990s. And they are estimated to assault about 5,000 civilians each year. It's not illegal to be a Yakuza, and mob bosses rub elbows with the most powerful political leaders and industrialists in the country.  In Tokyo alone, police estimate there are more than 800 legitimate businesses that are front companies for the Yakuza.  Japan's Securities and Exchange Commission has a list of more than 50 major companies with ties to organized crime. Some 90% of Japanese corporations host their shareholder meetings on the same day because it make it harder for the Yakuza to blackmail them at the meetings, a process known as  sokaiya.The Asian Pacific Journal described it this way: "In the 1920s yakuza bosses were elected to the Diet.5  In the postwar era police struggled to control violent street gangs.  Business leaders hired the same gangs to impede labor unions and silence leftists.  When Eisenhower planned to visit Japan in 1960, the government called on yakuza bosses to lend tens of thousands of their men as security guards.  Corruption scandals entwined parliamentary lawmakers and yakuza lawbreakers throughout the 1970s and 1980s.  One history of Japan would be a history of gangs: official gangs and unofficial gangs.  The relationships between the two sides are complex and fluid, with boundaries continually being reassessed, redrawn, or erased."10 Notorious Crimes Committed By The Yakuza - ListverseAnd yes, the Yakuza expect their underlings to chop off part of a finger when they screw up. When you see someone with only a nub, well, they've had a couple of strikes against them. 
In the day to day lives of most people living in Japan: they're not dangerous at all. Even if you see them they're not really in the habit of interacting with the "public" in any way and, compared with western gangs/hooligans/thugs/punks/drunk-teenagers, Yakuza pose relatively no danger.That being said, the most common way to encounter them is in the night-life/club scene. In most cases, the ones you'll meet aren't real "Yaks" they're "Yankee", which is basically a wanna-be.  They're actually the most dangerous to the public though, because they're trying to get noticed by the real yakuza and are the most likely to get drunk and cause a scene / get in a fight; I've seen dozens of yankee fights outside the bars I used to work at.Encountering a real  yakuza in a club with any foreigner isn't that likely.  If they are there, they usually have some VIP section that's protected.  They also have their own clubs where foreigners are almost never allowed.Here are the personal experiences I've hadWorking in clubs / bars and one comes in, usually lower or mid level, and trying not to be noticed. I was respectful and cool to them, they were cool back, I got 'em their drinks, sometimes we had shots together but that was about it.I lived up in the mountains above Ashiya for a while, and my neighbor was the son/cousin/brother of the Yakuza - so I guess he was too, technically.  We were very close spent a lot of time BBQing and drinking together, but we NEVER discussed his family.Once, JUST ONCE, I was riding my bike deep in the "minimi" area of Osaka around Shin Sekai, just sort of checking everything out when I passed a small alley on my left and did a double take.  Down at the end of this ally was a heavy-looking, black door with a gold border and a security camera above it.  As I rode by slowly and looked twice, I stopped and looked for no more than about 2 seconds when the door burst open and the biggest japanese guy I'd ever seen - all in black - burst from the door and started running toward me.  I hit the speed on my bike HARD and did't look back. 
I live in Japan for more than a decade and have nothing but good things to say about Japan. For an ordinary person, Yakuza is virtually non-existent. They will not stop you at night and mug you.A professional Yakuza is not a threat to you. If you don’t get in to their business, they will never try to get in your way. But, you need to be careful with the junior Yakuza’s. The chinpiras. The wanna-be’s. They can be a nuisance.However, as someone else said here, they have their tentacles deeply in corporations. And I believe Yakuza have the sole control of porn industry in Japan. And if I’m not mistaken, Japan has the world’s largest porn industry worth few billion $ a year.This is a place Yakuza can get ugly. If you are unfortunate enough to get in to porn industry (and also prostitution), you wouldn’t think Yakuza is ‘cool’. Those guys can be pretty brutal. They are not the kind, shy men you find on streets.I guess being in porn industry in anywhere in the world is not a pleasant experience, but I when you have work in an industry like that, and you actually have to work with Yakuza, that’s not an easy life.There was an article recently where a young girl was tricked contractually in to doing porn. She thought she was signing to be a model, but they tricked her and forced her to be in pornography.Also, Yakuza earn their money legally. For example, if you pass out drunk in one of their clubs, they will not steal your wallet. But when you wake up, you’ll get an exorbitant receipt for drinks you never had.So, don’t think Yakuza are cool people. They are businessmen. There is no harm in going to their clubs and drinking, but make sure you know what you are doing.EDIT:I wanted to add couple more examples of Yakuza:Protection money: Companies as big as Toshiba or Hitachi pay protection money to Yakuza (from what I’ve heard). As I said, Yakuza are ‘mostly’ legitimate businesses. They are registered businesses and they pay taxes. Their earnings and spending are accounted. That means they can’t just extort businesses and take protection money as cash. So what do they do? These big companies have annual employee parties where they have a massive event in some park. The organization of these events are given to companies run by Yakuza. They set up the tents and organize the event. And they charge some exorbitant price for that. And that is one of the ways big corporations ‘legally’ pay protection money to Yakuza.Fukushima: This is a famous example of Yakuza’s dirty business practices. In the wake of Fukushima incident, they TEPCO needed a lot of people to do the clean up work. The dirty work was not done by TEPCO employees. They hired contract workers from third party man-power businesses. Guess who owned these man power companies? Yeah, Yakuza. They hired innocent, unemployed people and sent to Fukushima for clean up work. The working conditions were extremely dangerous and they had not much training or sometimes even the proper protective clothing. This is perfect for TEPCO, where the risk of worker safety is now delegated to the Yakuza companies. The Yakuza companies, on the other hand didn’t care. There were reports that some of these man power companies seize to exist after few months. They were temporary companies set up up big companies, again, owned by Yakuza. Basically it went like, TEPCO hires from a bit Yakuza man power company. The big Yakuza company will in turn hire from a smaller man power company, and so on. And the end of the line are small, shady businesses, which could suddenly dissapear to exist, so if there were any investigation on worker safety or something, there was nobody to blame. And TEPCO and the big Yakuza companies have no responsibility. Project management 101: Risk delegation.
Quora User's cautionary answer and Tom Kehoe's detailed explanation are both excellent and correct. Let me expand.If you have a business in a Yakuza area, or, you have a business that has historically had a Yakuza influence, you definitely have some form of interaction with them. This is the bread-and-butter of the modern Yakuza.Although they are more visible to every day people than the modern mafia in the USA, they aren't trying to increase their visibility like you might see in video games. Many also have family that are peripherally involved and they are not always visible.They do not go out of their way to get involved with tourists ( I can't tell you how involved they are with 'pickpocket' crime - which can be a problem in some places - but I think not much). Visiting foreigners are just too much trouble to deal with. If you see them, stay away from them. Unless there is some mitigating circumstances, they will likely stay away from you.The Yakuza are romanticized in film, much like the mafia is (Id say more so), but often for different reasons. That doesn't make them good guys.Just like any organization that is involved in very illegal activities, if you involve yourself in them, you do not have the option to just walk away, even if you are a foreigner.