
Longstanding economic and strategic ties.After the bloodbath of WW2, Japan was left in a fragile state. The US, wary of repeating the mistakes of the aftermath of the First World War by impoverishing the defeated, and eager to deprive the rising threat of the USSR of allies, spent lavish amounts on rebuilding the country. The USA also accepted the duty of defending Japan, having deprived Japan of the right to an expeditionary military as a consequence of their actions in WW2. Japan, rapidly modernising and capable of developing it’s own self defence forces, became a shield to compliment America’s spear, with both nations remaining safe as a consequence. Japan also learned a great deal from America on matters relating to technology and good management practises, and this was later repaid in the 80s, when innovative Japanese customs were spread back across the Atlantic, to the benefit for both nations. Japan benefited greatly from the US eagerly buying what they could manufacture, and the US benefited from the affordable quality Japan could offer.
Japan and America have been geopolitical friend for a long time. In 1900, eight powers invaded China, among them were USA and Japan, and Japan was the main troop. On 1931, Japan was encouraged to occupy Northeast Three Provinces of China by Britain and USA as a geopolitical strategy to balance Soviet at Far East. Japan took the opportunity to expand its sphere of influence by invading China again on 1937, Britain and USA still tolerated Japan until Japan attacked Pearl Harbor on 1941.When Cold War begin, Japan was playing the same geopolitical role for Western Powers at Far East to balance Soviet and China for USA. Japan and America has long been geopolitical friends for more than a century, only went ugly for four years from 1941 to 1945.
Douglas McArthur wrote the Japanese Constitution and got them back on their feet after WW2. The Japanese accepted defeat, reformed their whole nation and worked hard and smart to achieve great things. The two nations have been strong allies since WW2.
A marriage of convenience. The US needed a forward base to contain the spread of communism in asia during the Korea and the cold war.