
I’d argue that war is morally wrong and unethical. There are rare cases where the alternative is even more morally wrong and unethical. WWII was about as clear cut a case as exists in human history where there was a monstrous evil which controlled multiple nations which drove them to engage in some of the most horrific acts of mass murder in history. Other nations had the choice of resisting this evil, ignoring it and hoping someone else took care of it for them, or passively to actively supporting that evil.Those who chose to fight this monstrous evil engaged in a war of machines and production. Directly thrown into battle were tanks, guns, explosives, aircraft, ships, submarines, rockets, bombs, torpedoes and so on. To create those machines required mines, factories, and shipyards while getting the weapons to where they needed to go required railways, trucks, roads, bridges, ports, airfields, aircraft. Fuel and lubricants were required for the weapons and for transporting the weapons to where they needed to go. Food was needed to sustain the military, the workers and the general populace of the warring nations.Winning World War II meant ending the enemies willingness or ability to continue to fight. That end goal could be achieved by defeating the armies, navies and air power in battle or by destroying the means of producing the weapons the enemy needed to fight.Use of atomic weapons against Japan was an accepted tactic using a new weaponAn accepted way of fighting WWII was attacking the means of production and the means of transporting the equipment used where it was needed. That meant attacking factories, shipyards, roads, bridges, shipping, railcards, railroads and waterways.Naturally many of these targets were in or around cities.The use of atomic weapons on Hiroshima and Nagasaki was continuation of a tactic that had been accepted as the way modern wars were fought in WWII - attack the enemy’s production capacity and logistics.Ironically the US is criticized for attacking civilians when they were the last major power in that war to use that tactic which was initiated by the Japanese in Asia and Germany in Europe then adopted by the RAF in 1942. The US came to that party late in 1945 and somehow gets most of the criticism for it. The use of atomic weapons on Hiroshima and Nagasaki was the same tactic using a new weapon.Evolution of Bombing in World War IIWhen WWII started in Europe with the invasion of Poland, Germany was merciless in its attacks on Polish targets including cities but strict rules of engagement were used by Britain, France, and Germany in regards to attacks on one another. All three countries refused to bomb targets on land in the countries that they were at war with. Ships at sea were an exception and were attacked when a target presented itself. This continued until May 1940 with the invasion of France Belgium, and Holland. Even then, cities were off the target list until Rotterdam was bombed which shocked the world.Even during the Battle of France, attacks on cities were avoided. Once France fell and the Battle of Britain started, the targets were still military. That changed in September 1940 when London was accidentally bombed by a small number of German bombers who were off course and bombed London by mistake. The British retaliated by spending a small number of bombers to Berlin. After that, the gloves came off and Germany targeted London and other British cities.SomethingAlso worthy of note is that at the start of the war, bombing was largely done by daylight and that allowed far more accurate delivery of bombs on smaller targets. The RAF quickly found that it's bombers could not survive in daylight attacks so it switched to attacking at night making it extremely difficult to hit small targets. Still that was the RAF policy - attack military targets not cities although the target could be in a city.By the first weeks of September, 1940, the Germans knew that they too took unacceptable losses in daylight raids and largely switched to attacks at night.In 1941 or 1942 the RAF did an experiment where they had their bombers take a photo when they dropped their bombs to determine the accuracy of their attacks. If I recall correctly, the conclusion was that less than half of the bombs they dropped came within 5 miles of the intended target. That study proved what many had thought, that their bombing effort was largely a wasted effort due to the inaccuracy of the attacks. RAF Bomber Command switched from targeting cities where war manufacturing was being carried out. No longer was the RAF going after a specific factory or refinery, it went after the cities they were located in.The USAAF 8th air force started to arrive in the UK during 1942 with a belief that they could attack targets in daylight. 8th Air Force strength grew gradually in 1942 (then got cut in half by supplying Bombers for North Africa) then grew steadily in 1943. The number of aircraft sent on missions during that period grew as the size of the available forces increased. For the most part, the US stuck to it's policy of targeting specific military targets, however, as the size of the bombing force increased so did the damage to the cities the US attacked.When the bombing of Japan by B-29s started in 1944, the concept of attacking cities was an accepted method of war. Still the US started by attacking specific military and industrial targets but found that the attacks by B-29s from high altitude were far less accurate than the results achieved in lower altitudes in Europe. This led to experiments with attacking at night by bombing at lower levels with incendiary bombs which proved very successful in destroying the cities and the industrial targets within them.By August 1945 the idea of attacking a city that contained military and industrial targets was viewed as the way modern wars were fought.Evaluating the ethics of an action or lack of action requires context. The context of the use of Atomic Weapons on Hiroshima and Nagasaki is that Japan was at war with the US and other allied nations and had demonstrated quite clearly that it had no intention of surrender on terms acceptable to the allies.When the US took Okinawa earlier in 1945, the death toll was:12,500 US dead95,000 Japanese military dead95,000 Japanese civilian deadMany of the civilians committed suicide. In a number of cases, parents killed their children and then themselves. Why? They were ordered to by the Japanese Army.Estimated cost in US lives to invade Japan Operation Downfall was 250,000 killed. Using the ratio of Japanese killed to US killed on Okinawa as a yardstick you get 1,900,000 Japanese military deaths and roughly the same number of civilian deaths.I'd argue that Japanese casualties would have been far higher than that.Those who argue that Japan was "defeated" before the atom bombs were used ignore the whole history of the Pacific war. The Japanese did not surrender, they fought to the death and would commit suicide before allowing themselves to be captured. To understand this, you need to understand Japanese culture of the time. To the Japanese, to surrender is a disgrace not only to the individual who surrendered but also to his entire family including his ancestors who are revered.To the Japanese, allied soldiers, sailors and airmen who were captures were lowlife scum undeserving of being kept alive. The Japanese were mystified that allied prisoners expected to be treated well and absolutely could not understand it when they actually wanted their families to be notified of their capture. Imagine, wanting your family to know that you had disgraced them. Unthinkable.So what did the allies demand of Japan? Surrender, unconditional surrender. They would rather die.It also helps to understand Japan's war aims. They seized a great deal of territory in the Pacific, China and South East Asia. Except for the Central and South Central Pacific they still held most of it at the end of the war. Their aim was never to conquer the US, it was a Pacific/Asian empire. Their aim was to inflict enough casualties on the allies such that we'd simply not be willing to pay the price to take it from them. That aim was still plausible in 1945 until atomic bombs convinced them that Japan could and would be annihilated with few losses on the part of the US.Then they surrendered.Using the atomic bombs ended the war far quicker, and with fewer casualties on both sides, than any alternative available to the US or our allies.
Honestly the trend is, shit happens in war.What makes a terrorist by definition a terrorist, is intentionally causing mass panic and terror to meet whatever their goal will be. With your ISIS example specifically, beheading is an exception not a terror attack, and in America executions of that nature are illegal and considered abhorrent, so there’s that.However most terrorist attacks are seen as needlessly killing people and screwing things up on a large scale, pointless death is bad, Terrorists are bad.Now as for military bombing of civilian targets, its also largely agreed to be utterly horrible, but oftentimes an inherent cost of large scale war. Before we get to Japan, think of Dresden in Germany for example. One of many cities, in both allied an axis territory that was leveled because it was a military target for its industrial centers. This involved a gratuitous amount of human lives lost. Now think of London, an allied city extensively bombed, thankfully they where saved from complete destruction by the RAF, but nonetheless, thousands of people lost their lives. The difference is London, debate was a larger political target while Dresden was logistical/military, but both where full of civilians. Sometimes the goal of bombing is simply to kill civilians. It is, atrocious, but it is war. People view acts of war and acts of terrorism differently, its a psychological difference.Hiroshima and Nagasaki specifically, are only special in that they where attacked with atomic bombs. Tokyo had already been completely leveled by firebombing. The bombing of Hiroshima and Nagasaki was both in an effort to push Japan closer to surrendering from terror of this new and awful weapon. Hiroshima and Nagasaki where also both military targets as well as population centers, and for the record, Hiroshima’s population was warned about an impending bombing, not that it means a lot in the long run. (Leaflets where dropped with warnings) A mainland invasion of mainland Japan was estimated to cost well into the millions of allied lives, and Japanese lives, bringing into consideration the cynical proposition that the bombings even may have saved Japanese lives. Its still entirely debatable whether the bombs where dropped to show off Americas new weapons, or to end the war more quickly, maybe it was both, but the answer in this context is the same;The bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, and all major populated targets for that matter, are actions of war. Which while terrible, are fairly standard procedure in war and are not considered terrorism.
Quite easily as they are not equivalent.The atomic bombs were dropped on Japan during a declared war between sovereign nations. American views vary significantly on that, but they don’t vary on the facts that the countries were at war.In your example, an individual of a terrorist organization beheads another individual - for whatever reason. ISIS isn’t a sovereign nation, and they aren’t at war. They are performing a purposefully cruel action against an individual person in order to inflict terror and to give the pretense of strength.The Japanese ‘war machine’ was entirely intertwined with Japanese city life. Military targets were present. Infrastructure that supports the military was present. Japanese citizens were literally inseparable from the military infrastructure. The Japanese government didn’t have all military installations entirely separated from the population. The Japanese non-military citizens that died because of their proximity to these targets, not specifically because they were non-military citizens.
Little Boy and Fat Man were dropped at the end of the largest war in human history where tens of millions of lives were lost due to stupid ideologies. Arguably the bombs saved millions of lives as the other alternative was to invade the Japanese main islands, which would have both cost up to a million American lives and the lives of untold numbers of Japanese civilians and soldiers.It was a horrible necessity, as well as not even being the largest of the horrors inflicted in WW2, with the lives lost in the siege of Stalingrad, the massacre at Nanking etc costing far more.The executions by ISIS are not a necessity, it is pure barbarism, and there is no other word for it.
Strategic saturation bombing of cities, whether nuclear or conventional, was (and still is) deemed acceptable if:The cities harbour military units;The cities are part of the war production complex.If you don’t want your city to become a target under international law you have to move both your military units and your war production out of them. Neither the Germans nor the Japanese did this thus making them legitimate targets.