
Death note. I watched it when I was your Daughter’s age and found no problem with it. Its genres include Mystery, Suspense, Thriller and Supernatural which was why I found it entertaining. but what pulled me into the show the most was the brilliant way the plot unfolded and the way it dealt with ethics, morality and power.Here’s the summary from Wikipedia : Light Yagami is a genius high school student who discovers the "Death Note", a notebook that kills anyone whose name is written in it. After experimenting with the notebook, Light meets the Shinigami Ryuk, the notebook's original owner, who dropped the notebook to the human world out of boredom.To be honest, watching the show has changed my perspective about the human condition and taught me a new way to approach problems and develop solutions and plans. It shows how a seemingly harmless idea could change your view on our humanity. Light believed that he was helping the world by killing off the ‘bad’ people. He just did it in an unusual way but It’s up to the viewer to judge whether what the character did was right/wrong. Both anti-hero Light’s planning and his antagonist L’s solving skills was what kept the tension. they were neck to neck in the process of discovering each other’s secret identities and it was exciting to see which one wold make the next move. The way they approached problems were ingenious and definitely gave me an edge to my analytical skills as I tried to analyze the data alongside the detective.The supernatural element of the Death notes added the discussion of power to the show. The shinigamis (Grim reapers - the actual owners of the death notes) give us a objective viewpoint on death here, for clearly in the show, it is seen that Men cannot handle the power of controlling one’s lifespan, however moral or clever. If Shinigami get bored of such a power, what about us?Light’s logic about his actions actually make sense when he explains and it can strike a chord in anyone. Because if you had the power to clear the wold of horrible people through simply writing their name, would you? The show covers many grey areas and a wide range of important philosophical and ethical questions. It could help your child’s development later and give them a broader prespecive of the world around them. It also covers the topic of love, blind trust and decision making, all important topics for any age. It’s a brilliant show, making viewers think a lot, keeping them at the edge of their seats and making them laugh with the sparse bits of comedy and dark humor.I understand your concern but there is not much violence. A lot of the tension is based on suspense. There are many deaths but that is an integral grey area the anime aims to question. I would suggest you stop the discriminatory view you have on sensitivity. Boys and girls have a range of sensitivity and it may differ according to what they encounter. Your daughter may be a lot less sensitive and I know too many girls who loved the show. Let your daughter watch the show. It’s not harmful but if you are worried, you can read the manga of the same name (the japanese comic it is based on) or read the plot and reviews online. It is very popular among anime fans. If you want, bond with her by watching the show! you may even like it!Also http://kissanime.com is a anime site where viewers can access episodes of most anime shows. A lot of them are for teenagers and young adults, even children. so you need not worry. i have used the site myself. just tell your daughter to be careful while choosing shows to watch—do research about them before starting them.
I probably wouldn't be as concerned if she were a boy since girls are more sensitiveWoah, woah, woah.That all depends on the person. There are so many boys that, no matter what you do, cannot sit through a scary movie. There are also a massive number of girls who can watch them without being scared at all. I think you should judge whether or not she is mature enough on her character not her gender.Also, not all anime is 18+ and there are more that are not 18+ than 18+. Have you heard of Pokemon? That’s anime. Have you heard of Dragon Ball Z? That’s anime. Of course, there are a multitude of anime directed for ages 18 and over but there are more that are not.So in the end, you are the judge but if she truly thinks she has the maturity to watch it but you do not let her, she may neglect you more. From what I've seen, kids who hate their parents are children of parents who denied them from things like social media or watching movies that they really want to watch.
You seem to have some terrible misconceptions about anime. Although there is a type of anime (hentai anime) that is 18+, you aren’t likely to run into it without seeking it out since most anime fans refuse to even classify it as anime. Most anime target a teen audience.Death note is very safe for a 15 year old. Yes, it does deal with death, though not in a gruesome way, and the main character is certainly an anti-hero, but by 15 someone should easily be able to deal with these things. Really Death Note is a fun detective show about two intelligent people attempting to outsmart each other.If you would think it OK for you daughter to watch the news or normal American TV like Bones or Law and Order, Death Note should easily be OK. Really I’d be much more concerned about a child watching Bones than Death Note.Kissanime is somewhat more concerning, but not because I would worry about the available content (though they do have stuff much, much worse than Death Note, I don’t believe they have anything 18+). The issue with the site is that it is illegal. The site does not have permission to stream anime, and it is therefore in violation of international copyright law. I’d suggest you encourage your daughter to use legal services (ex. Hulu and Crunchyroll). Death Note can be watched legally right here: Death NoteNote: I am not affiliated with Hulu or Crunchyroll in any way. They are simply the best sources for legal anime that I can think of.
Not all anime is NSFW or 18+ so maybe you would want to get rid of that stereotype/bias before this gets in the way of your judgement, and I would say parents have treat boys and girls in the same light when it comes to anime (or any other content) that is aimed at an older audience.Plot: Death Note is an anime that explores the darkness of the mankind and asks many philosophical questions, the most crucial one being “Is it moral to kill criminals in order to get rid of crime/bring peace to humanity?” The story is about a high school student named Light who obtains a notebook which has the power to kill just by picturing the person’s face and writing the person’s name onto it. Light then uses the power of the notebook to punish criminals around the world as he think all criminals do not deserve to live, and in the process of doing it, he claims he is delivering “Judgement” (think Bible) and self proclaimed himself as God. The international police eventually discovers an abnormal of criminals dying and set out an investigation to arrest Light. It is not an easy story to stomach, even for adults. I would say Death Note is more like a very well written detective story with a twist of the supernatural.I would warn you that there are certain themes that are not the most family friendly, but there is no NSFW content, the following:the protagonist’s goes onto dates with girls (if you are afraid of your daughter going to dates too young)A girl goes on a date (again, SFW!) with a man to obtain information in order to solve a caseAnd most importantly:the way that the protagonist pathologically manipulates the people around him, even his own immediately friendly and his girlfriends, in order to attain his own “justice”, is clearly not the righteous attitude for a 15 year old to take example from.Having watched this anime, if I were a parent, I would probably be more concerned by the psychological impact it has on my child rather than the 18+ content (← because there is none). Given that your daughter is clearly intrigued by this anime, I fear that not letting her watch it would only further fan her flames of curiosity. I would suggest doing adequate research into the plot and if you decided that she can still enjoy this story with your own guidance, Why not watch this anime with her? If you have decided your daughter is still too young watch Death Note, you could tell her that she could watch it when she is older, when she is psychologically and morally more developed to decide what is right and what is wrong.Finally, I hope you could find an amiable way for you and your daughter to both enjoy the story as Death Note is one of the best anime in history.For your reference, here are a few well-written articles discussing Death Note and the philosophy behind the story:The Philosophy Of Death NoteDeath Note and Philosophy: Light Yagami and The Will To Power
Ok, I am going to be clear and rational with this, as well as logical.You are committing a single MASSIVE logical fallacy in your question. More specifically over-generalization. If you don’t know what a logical fallacy is, it’s a mistake in the reasoning of a statement. Over-generalization is basically taking a group and assuming that they are all the same.You over-generalize all girls as sensitive and fragile. This absolutely not true. I have friends of the female gender who have had their lives torn apart, yet they stay strong. Some were raped, some were beaten. I still see them enthusiastic and mentally stable. Death Note doesn’t even come close to the experiences that some of these girls have faced. Boys can be just as sensitive as you think girls are as well, I certainly know boys who meet your stereotypes. Bottom line is, boys can be sensitive or tough, and girls can be tough or sensitive. It’s not dependent on gender. This is the first reason that I believe that you should let your daughter watch it.You over-generalize all anime as being 18+ . This is certainly not true. Though it is true that some anime are meant for adult audiences. Death Note is not one of these anime, but it is meant for audiences around the age of 15, the same age as your daughter. The majority of anime are actually meant for entertainment for non-sexual purposes. Death Note is one of these anime.I believe that it would benefit your relationship with your daughter to research that which you are restricting from her. If you watch Death Note, you would be more able to judge whether or not you find it appropriate for her viewing. From my experience, Death Note is certainly appropriate for a 15 year old audience.In summary, Death Note is quite appropriate for 15 year olds, Girls are just as tough as boys (that’s coming from a guy), and all anime isn’t porn or 18+.