
Well, yes and no.As for Naomi, that’s a proper Japanese name that somehow became popular in the States.Note：I was informed that Naomi is actually a biblical name so that is a case of having a name of the same writing in both countries even though the pronunciation is different.I have never heard of a kid called Mirei. If anything, it was Mirai but if that was just a typo, that name has nothing to do with foreign names. Mirai 未来 means future and is just an alternative reading to the not that new name Miki (来 can be read RAI or KI(masu)).Erika is most certainly a foreign name written in Kanji, which works great as it totally works within the traditional set of names. -ka names turned really popular since the beginning of the 80ies if I remember correctly.I’d rather say Karen or even more Karin are similar: cute Japanese names that also happen to exist outside of Japan. My friend or the mother at our daycare didn’t call their daughter Karin because it’s also a Western name but because it’s d@mn cute and can be written with many kanjis with a good meaning.I’d say Sara or its counterpart Seira is definitely a Western name that was introduced via books (probably through the novel “A little princess”), considered cute and given some nice kanjis.I’m not quite sure about the Juri or Mari name, though. The cat’s name Marie is usually written Marii マリー and is therefore considered a totally different name. 毬 Mari are these colourful, beautiful traditional balls which have been considered cute. So I can’t say whether that isn’t the origin of the Mari names.Dito Juri, as Julie is usually written ジュリー Julii.I do hope it helps a bit.
Erik, Erika, Rika and Naomi have separate origins from Japanese. I did not know that any of these names exist in Japan, except as borrowed names. As far as I am aware, Eri, Eriko, Yurika and Juri are not Western names, although they may be in some European ethnic groups.From Google:Erik -masculine (Erika - feminine)Origin of the name Erik: Popular name derived from the Old Norse Eirìkr (eternal ruler), a compounding of the elements ei (ever, always) and ríkr (ruler, king). However, there are some who believe the name comes to the Old Norse via the Germanic ehre (honor) and the Proto-Germanic rīk (king): hence, “honorable king.”Rika is a Norse name. It is the feminine version of Eric: Forever strong. It is also used as a short form of Erika.Naomi (Hebrew: נָעֳמִי) is a feminine Jewish name of Hebrew origin. In Hebrew, it means "pleasantness". In the Bible, Naomi is Ruth's mother-in-law.Karen is a Danish short form of "Katherine". It has been common in the English-speaking world since the 1940s. Variants include Caja, Kaja (Danish), Caren, Caryn, Karena, Kaat, Karin, Karyn, Kerena, Karen (English). The name is used in the Danish, Dutch, Norwegian, German and English languages.Mari. This is the Welsh, Breton, Estonian and Finnish form of Maria, as well as a Hungarian diminutive of Maria. It is also a Scandinavian form of MarieSarah: Derived from the Hebrew sārāh (princess). The name is borne in the Bible by the wife of the patriarch Abraham and mother of Isaac. Sara is the preferred spelling in many European countries.Mireille. From the Occitan name Mirèio, which was first used by the poet Frédéric Mistral for the main character in his poem 'Mirèio' (1859). He probably derived it from the Occitan word mirar meaning "to admire".If the Japanese families that have used these names were not influenced by Western society, and the meanings are different, then it seems the names developed independently in Japan.