
From the way-off-the-beaten-path folder:* Tokyo Haikyo - a database of abandoned buildings, haunted tunnels and otherwise creepy locationshttp://haikyo.crap.jp/a/13.html  This site is in Japanese but there is an embedded Google map and lots of pictures.http://tokyodeep.info/tokyo/ Similar, but a little bit less user-friendly.Probably inadvisable in any other part of the word, but in Japan the level of danger must rank somewhere between driving and texting-while-walking. Still, at your own risk etc etc.  
I hesitate to write about these as they are "secrets" after all... ;)  (I love my little places!)Little Shop Curry (Japanese curry to be exact)It's a small, 14-seat shop run by a husband and wife duo that is only open 11:00 - 14:30 Mon-Sat. If you get there when they open, you'll wait in line. If you get there early and get in when they open, you'll still wait for food as they make every plate of curry as it's ordered. There's only one pot of curry for the day so they may close early (earliest I've seen them cut off the line was at 12:30). They have five choices for your curry, but really, you only ever need to order 気まぐれ (or set C, or as I like to translate it "whimsical curry"). If meat isn't your thing, then they do have a veggie-only curry as well. But assuming you're a C-set sort of person...Let me walk you through the above. In the fore you see several juicy, freshly fried pieces of kara-age (Japanese-style fried chicken). To the right you see atu-age and hijiki, or fried tofu and a type of black seaweed respectively. Resting on top is a bit of grilled pepper and to the right, falling towards the curry is grilled egg plant. To the back left are several strips of tonkatsu, or fried breaded pork, and just peeking out from behind the tonkatsu at the back lip of the bowl is medamayaki, or a sunny-side up egg. This picture is a bit old, but they have now added some fried cabbage as well.The picture doesn't really give you a size reference... but it's huge. I struggle to finish. In fact, most people I have taken there have struggled to finish.Heck, here's another picture - a bit more intimate.Pardon my drool.The best part about this? It's only 700 yen. (If for some reason you just crawled your way back to civilization after being stranded on some uninhabited island for months on end, you can always get oo-mori [large portion] for an additional 100 yen. Then again, eating that much food after nearly starving probably isn't good for you... It would be best to order sukuname [the 'u' between the 's' and 'k' is almost silent], or small portion [of rice - you still get all the fixings]).Little Shop Curry is located in the backstreets of Shibuya. But don't worry, I have you covered. Here's a map from Shibuya Station (https://maps.google.com/maps?sad....CHUBBYNo, I'm not describing you after eating at Little Shop Curry (though...). CHUBBY is my favorite cafe in Tokyo, though it's definitely out of the way. Located at Daitabashi Station (代田橋駅) on the Keio Line (京王線) - it's not JR - heading west out of Shinjuku, there's little chance you'll be "passing through" (unless you're headed to Mt. Takao at the very end of the line, which you can also access by JR).CHUBBY is an art cafe where every month they feature a Japanese artist's works, whether they be handmade watches or pastel paintings. In fact, I first ventured to CHUBBY to see an exhibition by my favorite Japanese artist. The cafe has lots of space, but unlike many cafes you find in Jiyugaoka (自由が丘), it isn't crammed to the max with tables. In fact, they could probably easily fit another 5-10 tables in there... (they only have 6 as it is). While a few of the 2-3 person tables have chairs, the other tables seat you on couches - deep, comfy, couches (actually a bit too deep at times considering the height of the tables).The fare at CHUBBY is a mix of Western and Japanese, though my favorite dishes include the Pumpkin Gnocchi, Rosemary Roast Chicken, Stewed/Boiled Pork & Daikon (煮物), Hayashi Rice, and usually, whatever their monthly menu item is (they also have a daily menu item). There is usually only 2, maybe 3 people working so it takes awhile for food to come, but it's never really busy. Another reason why it takes awhile for food is that they make it as it's ordered. It feels like you have a personal chef! What has always amazed me is the huge selection of dishes CHUBBY offers. Their food menu is a good 8 pages long at least and yet everything comes out perfectly (trust me, I've eaten nearly every item on their menu). Combine that with a doubly long drink menu and you have yourself a nice relaxing evening with friends lounging in couches, gazing at art, and consuming delicious food & drink.I went so often that they knew me immediately whenever I called to reserve for a large party (Japanese only).No pictures this time, sadly, but here's a map (https://maps.google.com/maps?sad....Au Temps JadisWhile I've never been to France to try truly "authentic" galettes and crepes, I must say that ATJ makes the best galettes and crepes I have had in Japan. Located in the area between Harajuku and Shibuya (both places notable for their crepe stalls), ATJ is a sit-down restaurant geared toward the more refined crowd (or those who don't mind spending a bit more for mouthwatering galettes and crepes).ATJ is perhaps the hardest restaurant to find among these three. Don't worry a map is below. Their galettes range from 1000Y to 1500Y while their dessert crepes range from 600Y to 1000Y. My personal favorite crepe is their banana chocolate (or their hazelnut chocolate...). Add a dollop of vanilla ice cream and you're in heaven.But before that, if you want a light meal you can always try one of their galettes.All this in a quaint, dare I say, cute basement shop that is nevertheless lit by natural light.ATJ is closed Wednesdays, but otherwise open every day until 7p. It's always busy on the weekends during the day, but it tends to slow down in the evening.Here are those promised maps from Shibuya Station (https://maps.google.com/maps?sad...... and Harajuku Station (https://maps.google.com/maps?sad...).Maruichi BagelBagels in Tokyo? Like, non-bread legit bagels?YES.But you'll pay a bit... (a lot). First let me tempt you:Now that I (hope I) have your attention, that right there cost me about 1300Y. (I was excited to see a blast from the past - Martinelli's Apple Juice - and couldn't resist, I think that itself was about 500Y).Maruichi Bagel has a good variety of bagels from the standard fare (Blueberry, Egg, Poppy, etc.) to the health nut bagels (think flax seed, whole wheat, oatmeal etc.). What you see above is my own creation of tofu & fig cream cheese (so good!), smoked salmon, tomato and lettuce in between a blueberry bagel.I was so excited to find good bagels that I also purchased a bagel with red bean and sweet potato salad as the stuffing (it was savory, not sweet!). Needless to say, they're not stingy when it comes to the fillings (I couldn't get my mouth around it... [cue Quora User]). So, if you find yourself in Tokyo and in need of a bagel, definitely make your way to Maruichi, which, like everything else on this list, is a bit hard to find. The nearest station is Sirokanetakanawa (白金高輪駅). As usual, here's the map (https://maps.google.com/maps?sad...). It's also a pleasant mid-morning walk from Roppongi/Azabu-juban (walking directions: https://maps.google.com/maps?sad...)Well then, I hope I have sated your interest in little Tokyo treasures but stimulated your appetite. Eat on!!
One fact of Tokyo that surprised me (and continues to surprise me) is the fact that many streets and roads in Tokyo used to be rivers or streams. Many of these rivers and streams were paved-over in the decades after WW2, though some were covered even earlier.Although the water in these streams is no longer visible, the shape of the roads still reflects the winding nature of rivers.Example (1): this raised path in the center of a Tokyo road used to be a canal:Example (2): this map shows a section of Tokyo circa 1945. Circled in red is where a small stream crosses under a road:And here is that same location today (circled in yellow). The former stream has been turned into a paved walking path.Example (3): Today there are plenty of examples of streams that are partially covered, like this one:For a longer list of examples and some more background on this topic, see:Walking on water: the underground rivers of Tokyo 東京の地下河川や運河の地図Furthermore, one of the interesting ways that these former buildings influence Tokyo is that there are a number of buildings that are exceedingly narrow. (See: Narrow buildings next to former rivers )For example, this sliver of a building is bound by a street and a former river.
Shimokitazawa, in Setagaya, several stations away from Inokashira Line's Shibuya Station, and two stations away from the University of Tokyo's Komaba campus.It is a smaller version of New York's Greenwich Village, with heaps of small shops, theaters, cafes, second-hand thrift shops, art galleries, and so on :)http://www.jnto.go.jp/eng/locati...
1. Todoroki RavineIn the Setagaya-ku of Tokyo, there is a 1 kilometer long ravine which combines the green wood, red bridge and natural landscape, forming a typical Japanese style view. In summer, it turns green while in Autumn, it’s filled with red leaves.2. KagurazakaIf you are tired of the busy streets of Tokyo, why not walk around in Kagurazaka? When you are here, you will find that its view is totally different from the outside. The beautiful and ancient buildings make you feel like standing in “little Kyoto”.3. ShibamataIt’s a very tranquil place with just a few tourists. If you don’t like crowded and busy places, then come Shibamata. It looks especially beautiful in rainy days.4. GotokujiAs the birthplace of fortune cat, Gotokuji has more than 2000 fortune cats !5. Soshigaya-OkuraSohigaya-Okura, in the Setagaya-ku of Tokyo, is a quiet and peacefull community. Since Tsuburaya Productions created Ultraman here, it’s seen as the hometown of Ultraman and lots of Ultraman fans visited here every year. Therefore, if you also love Ultraman, you shouldn’t miss it.6. ShimokitazawaThere are lots of fashion shops, second hand cloth shops and merchandise stores in Shimokitazawa. Here you can find many fashion but cheap things. Various modern cafes and bars combine with traditional Japanese taverns and dining halls in this place, forming an unique street view.Get more Japan travel guides:Tourank APP - Japan Travel Guide, Smart Tour, Offline Tour Map.