
Having a Japanese girlfriend, learning Japanese, and spending considerable time in Japan (I’m writing from there now) I thought I would give my interpretation as I have been actively going through the shock of having my misconceptions blown apart.Japan is a country where flaws are hidden under layers of beautiful wrapping and most foreigners enjoy the wrapping too much to begin to open the package.That Japan is a Rich CountryOn first impression as a tourist seeing the lights of Shinjuku it is easy to be misled that Japan is a rich country. Everything from the delicious food to automated toilets is beautiful, perfect, and modern. However digging deeper it becomes shockingly apparent that many Japanese are on a slow descending flight to poverty. (Anecdote: I once stayed at a manga cafe overnight because I missed my last train. Manga cafes are cheap box like facilities that have a computer, drinks, even showers for people who go there to read manga and chill out. However, as I was waken up at 7, I realized many of the people around me actually lived in these cafes. They woke up and got dressed in business attire and went to work. Some of these people may have been stranded travelers like myself but the amount of them and routine way they went about their day made it clear that many were working part time jobs eeking an existence.)Average wages in Japan have stagnated and actually regressed for two decades. Japan’s debt is double its GDP, with a recession with no end in sight. Companies are not only not giving wages, they are cutting costs by part timers with no benefits. Basically if a Japanese young person doesn’t get hired straight out of college, it is very difficult for them to find full time employment and thus they are stuck in a cycle of poverty and desperation which leads to them not being able to marry due to lack of money and start families, which leads to more economic problems, and so it goes…If you leave the big cities like Tokyo, or even the bright neon mega districts of Shibuya, you quickly realize Japan is dying. Entire cities have become “shutter cities” where all the shops are shuttered closed due to lack of business. Small businesses cannot compete with the modern chain stores and restaurants around train stations so are being squeezed of their life. Young people move to the cities to find jobs and opportunities and have left the countryside to senior citizens thus worsening the local economies of talent and new growth in another vicious cycle.Women have less economic power due to the ingrained cultural sexism here. They’re expected to quit after marrying or just take a cheap part time job. This deprives Japan of a highly educated and talented workforce. Also a lot of careers are gender differentiated. Women in Japan tend to choose “feminine” careers such as nursing, beauticians, teaching, etc. Lastly something like half of single mothers are under the poverty line.Japan is a terrible place to be an entrepreneur. Small business and innovative thought are crushed by rigid structures in the workplace and fear of failure. Wonder why Japan missed out on the internet boom and mobile phone revolution? Sony is a shell of itself as are many former giants of Japanese economy.Japan can’t compete anymore in the global marketplace. It got rich when wages were cheap. But with China and the rest of Asia’s ascent Japan’s rigid policies and higher wages make their goods hard to sell. Even their entertainment industry has been overtaken globally by Korea. Japanese are bad at learning and speaking English. Japan doesn’t encourage foreign workers or immigration, in fact it actively discourages them. Japan is inward and inflexible when it should be trying to expand and open toward the rest Asia specifically and the rest of the world.Japanese People Are Polite and NiceJapanese people are polite in specific situations. They are definitely nice to foreigners and guests. They are less nice to service people and those in an inferior position. Watch Japanese people at restaurants for example. They rarely acknowledge waiters and people who work there. In other words, politeness is a ritualized form of behavior dependent on context.I am Chinese. My white friends get most best polite treatment. When I don’t speak I receive Japanese person level treatment. When I speak poor Japanese or English, I sometimes get less good treatment. Brown and Black people get it the worst; they are discriminated against and though few Japanese would admit it, they are seen as less desirable.I live in a sharehouse with many Japanese people. They rarely talk to one another. They don’t want to make eye contact and actively avoid seeing each other in the halls. Japanese people have problems interacting with strangers. They simply don’t know how to behave as their society does not encourage friendly interaction among strangers. You’re either friend, family, or servant, superior. Experiment: Try to talk to Japanese people on the train or bus in public.The Japanese have a term for their public face, the one smiling and bowing that tourists see: tatemae. Tourists and foreigners rarely see the not so nice honest voice or honne.Japanese People are HappyRelated to previous points, they may seem happy on the outside. Often they are not. They simply don’t gripe openly as much as foreigners do. Being unhappy is impolite after all. They have a grin and bear it attitude, which while admirable, tends to crush those who can’t cope.Japan’s suicide rate is sky high. People jump in front of trains regularly here. So much so that the government fines the FAMILY of those who do to discourage the practice.Mental illness services are near non-existent. There’s tons of troubled people who rarely or never leave their houses. Many senior citizens live alone and die only to be discovered weeks later decomposing.There’s a whole generation of men known as Soshoku Danshi or herbivore men who have basically given up on marriage and love. They can’t afford it, they don’t want to work to death to raise a family, instead they have hobbies or anime or the internet to fill up their time. This isn’t some small weird minority. This is more than 50% of men in their 20s-30s. (Look it up!)I’m getting tired so I’ll stop here. I really like Japan btw. I’m just pointing out some lightbulbs that went off in my head that I thought might pop the gaijin bubble.
That Japanese is a very difficult language. This is untrue for English speakers. The writing system is hard but that is not the language.  This is a basic misconception based, I think, on 4 things.   Americans have little experience with learning non Indo European languages.  If you are learning French  or German there are many borrowed and cognate words.  This does not happen of course in Japanese.  Compared to almost ANY other non Indo European language and compared to many European ones like Greek or Russian,  English speakers have a very easy time. The grammar is very simple with all the verbs regular except two.  The sounds are all easy for English speaker with the exception of the the Japanese "R".  It is a little easier than Spanish in this way.  After Polynesian it has the smallest number of phonemes.The grammar is easy too.  There is no gender or articles or plurals.  There are no mood or aspects or difficult conjugations that are non existent to English speakers. So, it is not hard like Hebrew or Arabic, Not hard like Russian or German with sounds and grammar that are hard.  Compared to Navajo or Turkish or Persian or Greek it is very simple.The Japanese always say that Japanese is a very hard language.  That is because learning other languages is very hard for Japanese speakers. The phonemes of other languages that they don't have is hard, it is hard for them to end a word without a vowel, and grammar of English and other languages is much harder and has many more exceptions. Learning to pluralize and use gender in pronouns is hard. Also English spelling is erratic.  And perhaps because of the long time Japanese ideology of exceptionalism and pure separateness it is hard for many to believe that Japanese is an easy language.  This is along the lines of things I encountered in a country Japanese high school in 1979. There were students that just could not believe that we had pine trees because they were so symbolic of Japan or maple trees or that I already knew how to use chop sticks and so did my mother. Often people have a conflation and confusion between written language and the actual language. Japanese is a hard language to read and write.  You cannot use an alphabetic dictionary or sound out any words that are in Kanji. If it was written all in hiragana or in romaji, as was proposed after the War, it would be a much more widely known language. However, a language's writing system has little to do with the language itself and a lot to do with what nearby system it borrowed from and tried to make fit their own language. Most languages, at most times, have not been written languages, it has nothing to do with the ease of learning. The Japanese system is very hard because it borrowed and adapted from Chinese which is in a completely different language family so it did not work well. At that same time many Chinese words were borrowed just like English got a huge influx of words from Norman French, Latin, and Greek.  But for the Japanese the phonemes were almost  completely impossible so the attempts are very far from Chinese.  To make the written language an even worse fit Chinese has a grammar utterly unlike Japanese so a system had to by made to record Japanese particles and conjugations.  So, a kindergartener can read and pronounce the whole language if written in the hiragana syllabary, but to read a newspaper you need to memorize about 1500-2500.Lastly, there is a feeling that the different levels of politeness and different vocabulary for different social situations is hard.  This is do to a basic misunderstanding about sociolinguistics. All languages do code shifting for different situations. English does a great deal but it is actually more difficult for a new speaker to learn because it is less codified. Many romance languages have different pronouns and grammar for different social situations. It is simply something you learn. Understanding social levels is less of a language issue and more of a cultural issue. As with any cultures there are things you need to learn.
I think there are quite a few misconceptions coming from Western perspectives, but the one that irks me the most is somehow people think that there is an active culture of misogyny in Japan. Not 100% true.If you live in Japan for some time, you’ll find that Women are actually quite mentally strong, and have a fundamental presence in private sector of life. Women are often the leader in a household, or can speak above men in social situations. The term 肉食女子(Carnivorous Women) and 草食男子(Herbivorous Men) has been popular for some time now - and it reflects this behaviour. It’s very strange because Japanese women are somehow feminine and aggressive at the same time.Many women here genuinely prefer being a housewife to working - even in modern times. Polls show that a large section of Japanese women want to be a 専業主婦 once married. Public studies on what jobs girls want to do have revealed that their first 3 choices are often Kindergarten Teacher, Nurse, or a Model. [Source]. It speaks to some trend that the top 2 sought after jobs are care-giver roles.That’s not to say that women don’t have opportunities elsewhere in Business. My old companies - Namco Bandai Studios and GREE both boast a large population of women. Just look at Bandai’s website :FYI The project manager for this particular website was also a woman.I often see job postings where the company talks about how many % of their employees are women.However, I admit that this is not representative of all of Japan. The country side is more male dominated and there are plenty of companies that are still stuck in the old times where women were not given higher positions in a company. But I think times are changing. I’ve worked in IT in Japan and I can honestly say that there were far more women in my companies than what I’ve seen here in Canada.
The Japanese are Conformists with Little IndividualityThere is a culture of harmony in Japan. One of the words for Japan, used in expressions such as Wafuku and Wafuu is "wa" meaning harmony. Being harmonious is therefore in a sense, at least promoted as Japanese style. However while there is a philosophy promoting cooperation and harmony with others this does not mean that Japanese lack individuality in themselves. There are several reasons why Japanese have been thought to be lacking in individuality but most of them boil down to different attitudes to the media of self. Many non-Japanese visiting Japan can and have gained that impression, particularly due to the way in which Japanese do not express themselves linguistically to people that they do not know very well. The Japanese share their opinions with those that they trust. Holding linguistic opinions, or being able to verbalise ones desires is not considered to be so important. Japanese walk the walk, but they do not necessarily talk the talk. Talk is not considered so important in Japan. See the research of Heejung S. Kim. Conversely, the ways in which the Japanese express their individuality, such as the style of their house, their clothes, their fitness, are not considered to be so important in the West. Westerners see appearance as "mere appearance," the Japanese see words as "mere words" (理屈). Westerners feel that mind as associated with words, the self-narrative. Japanese feel the same way about self associated images. One of the ways in which this difference is demonstrated is in the way that Westerners feel about endless tape loops and announcements in Japan. We westerners feel it is weird that there should be all these person-less-words in the form of endless tapes and announcements in public. Westerners feel that words are, or should be, invested with mind. Similarly, Japanese find the sculptures of people pretty spooky because they feel that bodies are invested with mind. Japanese have Western style, or recently anime style manikins because the manikins would look too spooky, too human, too much like one should stop and say hi, if the had realistic Japanese features. Likewise, the Japanese sometimes give funerals to dolls, and are generally attracted by replicas (food, foreign villages, even fake-girlfriends). It is my personal belief that the Japanese are raised to be so self loving, so accepting of themselves, that if the culture of harmony were removed (or as it is removed) they will become so uncooperative and eccentric that Japanese society will run to a halt. Since alas even the Japanese have been convinced by the stereotype that they lack individuality, they have been trying to promote it among their chidlren and youths, to deleterious effect: the Japanese economy is going down the tubes. See my blog (burogu) for references.
Japan is a sparkling countryThe downtowns are sparkling, but the places little bit far from city centres are very village-like. You can find rice fileds near centrum.Using technologyJapanese people use the technology not much. People think that everywhere is like Akihabara but it isn't.Japanese people are so smartRather, they are very hard working.These are the things that I've been asked about when it comes to Japan related talking.