
Here are 10 adjustments to Japanese life you may find difficult...1) TIPPINGDon't do it (they'll stare at you blankly or give you the money back) - I actually prefer this one. For tippers, it might be hard adjusting to the fact that what it says on the menu is how much you pay at the end... crazy concept I know.For those that are adamant about the fact that "Tipping promotes good service", come to Japan. Great service, with a smile...without tipping! You then realize that the whole tipping thing is nothing but corporate BS made up to help retail owners pay their staff peanuts. GAIJIN TIP: Just don't do it... even when you think it's good service.2) TAXI DOORSDon't try to open or close the taxi door (it's automatic). I've slammed a few taxi doors in my time (a remnant of Black cabs in London). I think the driver thought I was ready to start a fight.Worth noting that Japanese taxi drivers are clean, efficient and cheap!GAIJIN TIP: Wait for the door to open for you, otherwise the driver might think he's being hijacked.3) SHOES INDOORS - DON'T DO ITTake your shoes off before you enter a house. This is inexcusable, even in your own home.GAJIN TIP: Learn the art of the Genkan (the small space between the outdoors and inside where guests take off shoes). Don't just take your shoes off, place them neatly facing the door.  4) DRINKINGBe prepared to see lots of drunk people late at night, particularly at Christmas/end of year where the level of drunkenness goes off the scale. If you have Japanese friends, you will get very drunk, and you may have to adjust to this being a regular part of life in Japan.That said, Japan is the best place in the world to get drunk. You won't get beaten up, you won't get your wallet nicked and you will be surrounded by lots of drunk Japanese who want to practise their English with you.GAIJIN TIP: Lose your "Western" shame about drinking and being drunk. It's not unusual to hear Japanese women tell you they are hungover because they got razzled last night. Learn to love Japan's extensive offering of soft drinks aimed at the hungover masses (Pocari Sweat, Aquarius, Hepalize etc)5) Re point 4... DRUNK SALARIMENWatch out for red-faced drunken Salaryman guy playing air golf with his umbrella on the train platform. Also, drunken Salaryman rolling around the train carriage floor, often asleep, sometimes murmuring something incoherent, at other times in a pool of vomit... You may have to adjust to being comfortable with just watching his corpse roll around the carriage floor with people stepping over him.GAIJIN TIP: Beware of young looking, drunk salarimen in suits. They will inevitably be the ones forced to drink the most by their superiors and almost always at the brink of extreme vomit. Also, learn to appreciate the finer pleasures of the drunken salariman singing Enka songs during Ohanami (cherry blossom) season.6) CHIVALRY (OR LACK OF)Don't expect people to open the door for you in a shopping mall, or "ladies first" or someone to offer up a seat to an old woman, or a pregnant woman on the train. There are "silver seats" in the carriages for the above but everyone conveniently falls asleep when a little old lady or pregnant woman shows up standing next to them.Also watch out for "Kusobaba" - the strong old lady who pushes her way through the train like the carriage caught fire or something. Don't mess with her, she has a Fendi sale to get to...GAIJIN TIP: If you are foreign, especially male, you can earn serious brownie points by offering to carry a lady's luggage up the station steps. You may also get arrested for scaring the locals.7) CRAZY CYCLISTSIf you're driving, watch out for cyclists, they are insane. Cyclists, particularly women on "mamachari" do not stop for anyone, pedestrian or vehicle. They have only one speed and are quite often either carrying children on the back or reading their mobile phone while cycling (if young girl). You may have to adjust to developing a 6th sense for predicting which random street a cyclist is going to charge out of at any moment.There are a number of discrete signs on the roads that say:"自転車左側通行" - Bicycles on the left hand side of the road. However, outside of the main roads, a large number of cyclists ignore this and cycle both sides against the traffic, especially ママチャリ mothers. For both oncoming cyclists and drivers this is pretty dangerous and it seems the offending cyclists are unaware they're doing anything wrong. So, this takes some adjustment.PIC: This is a motorized ママチャリ (mamachari). As I said in my point above, they are a real challenge for drivers. They tend to charge down the back roads on different sides without stopping for anyone... How they keep balanced with kids on the back and their shopping on front is nothing short of witchcraft.GAIJIN TIP: If you cycle in Japan, learn the hand signals no-one else uses, learn to track-stand, emergency stop, cycle with no hands while holding off a drunk Ojiisan veering into your path... all useful skills8) NOISEBoy is it noisy. I read somewhere that Japan was the noisiest country in the world. Machines play tunes all the time, cars drive around blaring their speakers asking you to recycle old washing machines, then there's the local speaker system to announce town news etc etc. You may have to adjust to this new normal and buy some ear plugs.I have lived in the 2 "noisiest countries" in the world (according to some)... Spain and Japan The second noisiest country in the world - hear-it.org & Noisiest nation in the world? ,  I've worked in different states in India, as well as South East Asian countries... so I appreciate what the comparison is. Anyway, maybe it's not as loud as your home town but for most people it's noisy.On the trains Japan can be deadly quiet but my point was about machines and loudspeakers everywhere: beaches, elections, American air bases, public address speakers, alarms etc etc. It's funny how in supermarkets you can have 3 or 4 different songs playing at the same time - no one seems to notice! 9) CUTE GIRLS I often see Western couples walking through Tokyo and I know what's going through the guy's head as he's looking round at all these pretty girls. No fat arms, no fat asses, they dress so well. Apart from the teeth, and the occasional pigeon feet, it's all good...And for those guys who come here with a girlfriend back home... good luck, it ain't gonna last.10) NOT BEING THE CENTER OF THE WORLDIn all honesty, I adapted pretty well to the above 9 adjustments in my time here but it was #10 that really blew my mind. Wow, this is how Japanese kids see the world. For the first time I had to adjust to the idea that my country wasn't the center of the world, but somewhere out on the edges... that was a hard adjustment but a liberating experience.11) BONUS: EATING IN PUBLICWow! Thank you for all your interest and great comments on this post...I've decided to add an 11th "adjustment"... eating in public in Japan. Visitors might be surprised by the looks they get when trying to eat a kebab or Big Mac and fries on the train so it's good to know the Japanese rarely do it. Not never. There are some exceptions when Japanese do eat in public places:On a train you can eat in public if you do it slowly and secretly. Keep the food in its bag. Do not make eye contact with other passengers while eating. Try not to alert passengers with the sound of your food wrapper. With your head down, eat with very small bites while reading a book or phone. Preferably stand in the corner by the doors.You may eat in the small ad hoc standing area known as the "shame spot" frequented by smokers. This can be found to the side of the convenience store. Alternatively you can eat without shame in your car if parked a. convenience store. You may also eat in public if it's an ice cream.So, an interesting observation to add...On my way home last night on the train heading out of Shinagawa.  I'm staring at my phone and notice some food smell. I look up. I see other people looking around with frowns. A middle aged lady a few seats down is eating a Nikuman (a rather stinky pork dumpling). It stinks out the carriage. She gets a lot of stares from passengers but she doesn't give a sh*t and everyone's too scared to complain. She finishes her snack, puts on her mask and falls asleep.  So there is your answer to *what happens if I eat in public?* GAIJIN TIP: Of course, you can eat in public if it's a festival or food is being served (duh!) People do eat in public in Japan, just not to the extent you'll see in other countries.12) BONUS - SUSHI AS IT SHOULD BEWhat on earth are sushi "chefs" doing in other countries burying their sushi under sauces, toppings and (the worst offenders being New Zealand) deep frying it?Deep Fried Sushi??? Anyway, sushi here in Japan is much simpler than the offending foreign varieties.EXHIBIT A: JAPANESE SUSHI -simple, subtle, delicious...EXHIBIT B: SUSHI OUTSIDE JAPAN -Looks like the cat vomited up this one...Your Japanese friends may look at this and say "マジかよ" (Majikayo) or in English...WTF? So, please come to Japan and try the real stuff, you'll never go back to eating Frankenstein sushi again...GAIJIN TIP: Don't even try to convince the Japanese that... "sushi back home is real good..." it's a lie. They'll agree and listen to you with feigned interest because they feel sorry for you.
Restaurants!I made many adjustments when I moved to Japan, but among all of them, the things that I never got used during my 5 years were mainly restaurant related.  The restaurant culture in the U.S. and Japan is just so different, and I was often left unsatisfied with the following points:Lack of flexibility in restaurants.In the U.S. there is a bountiful abundance of options and possibilities.  I could have my french fries swapped for salad, I have rice instead of pasta, I can have Swiss instead of American cheese.  If I ask nicely enough sometimes I could even have things not really on the menu.  I love it! :DIn Japan, there seems to be no other options other than what's clearly written on the menu.  Once I went to a cafe inside of a small airport and saw that they had hot English tea on the menu.  I asked if it was possible to turn it into iced tea.  The waitress tilted her head 45 degrees and said "Ahhhhh...... I'm sorry, but since it's not on the menu that wouldn't be possible".  In desperate need of iced tea, my addiction, I said, "Okay then, can you bring me hot tea and a separate cup filled with ice then?"  To which she said "Ermmm......... I would have to talk to the manager about that.... But he's not here right now".  WHY?!?!?  What possible negative consequences can there be giving me a cup filled with ice??  They already have ice, and they already have cups.  This request virtually requires no extra efforts or costs.  Is she worried the manager would scold her for giving away something that is already free?  Or is she worried I would sue the cafe for burning myself while pouring hot tea into a cup and accidentally spilling it all over myself, consequently resulting in a loss of millions of dollars like McDonalds?  No matter how I think of it, it just seems so absurd.  Ever since that incident I've given up on straying even slightly from the menu.  Portion of food.In America, everything is bigger. In Japan, everything is smaller.  From my body's perpective, this is obviously better.  I know the portions in the U.S. can't possibly be healthy and are often too big for one person to eat in one sitting.  On the other hand, the Japanese have a saying "hara hachi-bun-me (腹八分目)" meaning "80% full stomach".  Not eating till you're 100% full is considered the key to health, and I do agree I feel better when I eat to 80% and not to 120% like I more often than not end up doing in the states.But from my heart's perspective, the small portions in Japan just made me so sad!  There are indeed many places with cheap prices and big portions, but at the same time a lot of the normal restaurants have normal to expensive prices and small portions, whereas in the states it's more probable the majority of restaurants you go to will give you more than you should ever eat.  I've lost track of how many times I've eagerly waited for my plate to arrive and become crestfallen at the portion that appears as if it was made for a baby hamster.And for some reason takeout pizza is so expensive.  In the U.S. I can get a large for 20 dollars and in Japan I would pay the same price for a personal pan pizza.  Lastly, I haven't been able to prove this, but I even feel like the Big Mac is significantly smaller in Japan.  Grrr. Leftovers.The majority of restaurants that I've been to across Japan prohibited taking home leftovers.  So when I left food on a plate, I had to bid it goodbye forever.  This isn't much of an issue on normal occasions since as I said, the portions are small.  But when you are having enkai or dinner parties, this becomes a problem.  These dinner parties are often held at izakaya and more than enough dishes to feed an army are lavishly ordered.  Everyone would have put their chopsticks down and there would still be entire plates leftover.  I was taught to never leave even a single grain of rice when I eat, so I couldn't bear to watch perfectly good food (and especially those tasty karaages or fried chicken) go to waste.  Which is why I almost always sacrificed my own well-being and continued eating despite feeling and probably looking like pufferfish about to explode.  If the restaurants had allowed take out, I could have saved myself from multiple heartbreaks and about 20,000 calories.  I understand the concern they expressed that they don't want food poisoning to be caused by food that has already left the restaurant and can no longer be monitored, but for a country whose motto is "mottainai" (how wasteful), the restaurants don't seem to be doing their part in reducing the food waste.  (Hopefully it's recycled and I just don't know.)I know the 3 points I mentioned above are not representative of all restaurants across Japan, and surely there is variation depending on the region and the grade of the restaurant.  But, my main observation is that you will be much more likely to come across restaurants that don't accomodate personal requests, have small food portions, and don't allow take outs than you ever would in the U.S., which, for me, felt like the biggest differences between the restaurant culture in Japan and America.  I could also endlessly ramble on about all the things I like about the restaurant culture in Japan, but that's for a different answer.  I will mention that:On a positive note, I love that you can take off your shoes at many restaurants.I also looove cold oshibori (wet towels) on hot summer days and warm oshibori during chilly winter nights.And I love love LOVE love horigotatsu (low tables with sunken floors for your feet to comfortably hang loose).So I forgive you, Japanese restaurants. :P
The above answers are awesome, so I'll interpret this question and answer for you differently and focus on the visiting aspect.Here are adjustments you need to make. Notice I've randomly bolded words in accordance to Quora custom. And I have bulleted lists. I don't have a lot of word count, simply because I don't want to write a lot of words for no reason. Here are the adjustments to make when visiting Japan:Many Japanese possess little to no English so you often must communicate doing whatever it takes. Others hit on the fact you won't be able to read. Yes, you are functionally illiterate when it comes to kanji, hiragana, etc.., but worse than that spoken English is also not so developed compared to many other Asian countries. The Japanese are like the French of Asia, very culturally proud. Widespread fluent English just ain't their thing. Although many speak better English than they let on.Food will be squishy so your stomach must adjust to digest things it can't identify. Bean, sea product, mushroom, tofu. Foods will be gummy, slimy, texture-y and generally unidentifiable in a completely different way than Chinese food.Breaking rules is so much fun! Adjust your behavior to not care about breaking rules and norms. If you live in Japan long enough you will become cognizant about how impossible and awful it is that you as gaijin don't do things the proper way. As a visitor, you will live in ignorant bliss. So have fun, break social norms, no one will blame you.It's not as easy as it was to figure out what things cost so throw your budget out the window. Japan is an expensive country. As the US dollar strengthened, though, the 120 or so yen to 1 USD makes it harder when in the middle of compulsive decisions to know how much you are spending. 30000 yen, how much is that exactly? It's less than $300 so just buy it (whatever it is)Okay, time's up. Adjust, visit, and enjoy!
Being illiterate.  I've been able to read since early childhood, I've read thousands of books, but in Japan I was stumped.  Which is the men's room?  Bathrooms are commonly labelled in one of three ways:男 (man) or 女 (woman)お手洗い (otearai - [place to] wash your hands)トイレ  (toirei - toilet)In most places in the world, if I  couldn't understand a word, "caballero", I could look it up.  Not in  Japan.   男 -how do I look that up?  There are, of course, special dictionaries, and it takes some skill to use them. Now there must be some iPhone app?And it gets worse. Japan has four different "systems of writing" - in brief:Kanji (Chinese characters: mostly nouns, verb stems). Each Kanji usually has one meaning, but has at least two pronunciations, some have 8 or more.hiragana - phonetic alphabet used mostly to write particles and conjugations of verbs, words for which there are no kanji, etc.katakana - another phonetic alphabet, often used to write 'loan words' like 'toilet' (toirei)romajii - the Roman alphabet.So learning to read more than "entrance", "exit", "toilet" turns out to be a real challenge.
Sorting and disposing the garbage !It's been roughly six months now that I'm living in Japan and I must tell you that sorting the garbage is a very tough thing gaijin has to get used to.They have several kind of segregations like:Red Gomi (plastic bag): All the burnable stuffs should be here, but wait, you have to first decide which stuff is burnable. The good point is if any stuff is dirty enough that it cannot be handled with hand, it's burnable. (you know what I mean).Blue Gomi: For recyclable stuffs, for example PET bottles, milk/juice cartons, plastic, etc. but to make it into this category, the stuff needs to be cleaned before disposing it.Green Gomi: For non burnable stuffs like washing machines, old TV sets, cooking utensils, etc.The worst part is, you cannot dispose garbage daily but only on the designated day for the designated category. You have to keep your garbage in your home till it's the designated day. In case you miss to do it on that day then you have to wait till next week.Another nightmare includes disposal of PET bottles. The cap should be segregated separately, the label separately and the cleaned bottle separately.