
There are plenty of very Japanese stories. Writing down some of them.Note: The experiences are purely my personal experience and some of them are confirmed through friend living/working in Japan.Japanese pubs/restaurants (that serve alcohol) offer help to call a Daiko service to drop you back home. Two people will come in a small car and one of them will drive you home in your own car. The other car will follow and pick up the driver once you are safely back at home. Not sure if this is available throughout the country.You should not leave tips at Japanese restaurants. They won’t take it.Business travelers should learn about visiting card etiquettesThe Japanese prefer going dutch for the parties. It’s called Warikan in Japanese (meaning splitting the cost).The Japanese typically do not prefer inviting people over to their homes.Japanese people work hard and stay late. Also they come early to office.Employees will move their seats closer to their bosses as they get promoted. Bosses often sit facing their team separate from the general rows. I am not quite sure if all companies following this tradition, especially small ones.They always carry notebooks and pencils for meetings. They keep pencils in a box.Encourages exercise at workThe Japanese have many traditions, one among them is Hanami, an outside party during cherry blossom.Remember the tsunami back in 2011? The roads damaged in the tsunami and earth quake was repaired just in six days. That shows how passionate, systematic and hardworking Japanese people are.
This:This is a queue of Japanese players lining up… with their characters inside an MMORPG!During the releases of the online versions of Final Fantasy (11 and 14), certain aspects of the game were buggy. In some cases, it was difficult to access certain parts of the game.So how did they ensure everyone gets access fairly? A line, of course!An unenforceable line of dozens of characters, following unwritten rules to line up in an orderly fashion, for hours at a time.The sense of order is truly mind boggling.Final Fantasy XIV: "Some Things Never Change"
I have lived in Japan for some time. There are quite a few things that I think you can’t usually see outside of Japan. Here is a list1. super crowded train during rush hoursI have lived in some big cities around the world but never had I experienced such crowdedness. People were pressing into trains that apparently had no more space and you were squeezed like canned food. It was so crowded that one time my feet was off the ground and I felt like I was about to faint. One of the main jobs of staff at train station is to push people into the trains… (as in the picture)2. Girls wearing skirts during winter while it is snowingI heard about this before moving to Japan but still quite surprised when I actually saw it. As a comparison, I was wearing like two trousers and three clothes that day.3. Super nice serviceThere was a super market near the apartment I was living and I came there frequently for food and other stuff. The cashier lady working there smiled at customers all the time and was super helpful. You only need to put your basket on the desk and she would handle everything else. Sometimes I am amazed at how they could be so full of energy all day every day.4. Elderly people and women with children refuse to take your seatsOne time there was a lady with a boy of age 5 or 6 on the train. I tried to give my seat to her child but she firmly refused. The other time there was an elderly lady who got on the bus. I think she was probably around 70 and the same thing happened. Later on I decided to not take seat during travel to avoid feeling embarrassed having elderly standing while myself sitting.I remember cases in China where elderly people shouted at or even beat young people who didn’t give them their seats.#BBCtrending: The row over a bus seat in China - BBC NewsVideo of Zhengzhou woman attacked on bus by older man wanting her seat goes viralChinese Man Assaulted for Not Giving Up Seat for Elderly5. Being very strict on sex related contents while also openly sell child pornographyOn the one hand, the Japanese government is very paranoid about nudity and thus the infamous censorship on all Japanese adult videos and deleted contents from imported games Heavy Rain is censored in JapanOn the other hand you can see things like this being sold openly in JapanIn 2014, a law was passed in Japan to ban contents related to child sex and it was fervently opposed by some Japanese. In the end, the law excludes child sex contents in manga and anime so the book above is technically still legal in Japan.
The Japanese are very focused on their careers, as previous answers have already mentioned. This often has the unfortunate effect on their love lives - they're so busy working they don't have time to have relationships with the opposite sex. What does this ultimately mean?Analysts say that adult diapers are outselling baby diapers for the first time ever.Too busy working to make babies, it's crazy.Adult nappies 'outsell baby nappies'
I almost didn't answer this question but when I saw the answers submitted thus far I had to contribute my own opinions too- The most Japanese things ever, having lived in Japan for over ten years, in my opinion arebowing. Bowing ALL the time. People you meet on the street. Your senior co workers, managers. It doesn't have to be a full on back bending bow, but a quick nod of the neck in acknowledgmentApologising “sumimasen” or “gomennasai” just apologising for everything. Apologising for apologising.Presents. Presents for every occasion. Moving into an apartment? Presents for all your neighbours. Going to someone's house? Present. Came back from a trip? Present. Finished renovating your house? More presents for your neighbours.Never really answering the question- but this in itself is also “answering” the question. For most people who are used to direct approaches to communication might find this maddening. the answers are always hidden within nuances, word choice and intonation ;)Lining/queueing up? I don't know why but japanese people LOVE queueing up for stores or restaurants. Some people even get there hours in advance to get top seats/picks. Dedication.Last but not least, subtlety and grace. Japanese itself is the language of subtlety and grace in my opinion, and it reflects the people who speak it. There is a lot to be said about Japanese people, but these two points are definitely great qualities I think.