
It depends on your definition of "living", as there are a few different scenarios this could entail:Living in Japan on a Tourist VisaWhile some might not consider this to be "living in Japan", I'd say it certainly counts. You'll typically find Americans doing this, as America lacks the fabled "working holiday" visa that so many other countries get.Typically this allows someone to stay in the country for 90 days; depending on your country of origin you can apply for an extension, which is generally an extra 90 days. If you want to gamble it a bit, you can do what a lot of people try (to varying success), which is to hop to Korea for a bit, then slink back into Japan on another tourist visa. There's no guarantee that this will work for you, though!While you're in Japan on a tourist visa, you're obviously not a citizen. You can't legally work, you don't get medical coverage, and various things like even buying a bicycle or having a cell phone can become an extreme chore due to you not being a true "citizen" of any kind. It'll also be pretty difficult to rent an apartment, and chances are you'll end up settling for a foreigner-friendly place that does short term leases.Living in Japan, Working Holiday VisaBeing an American, I can't claim to be 100% correct on all of this, so someone with more experience should definitely feel free to jump in and add to this."Working Holiday" visas are available to quite a few countries (Canada, France, Australia - full list can be found here: http://www.mofa.go.jp/j_info/vis...). The requirements are pretty light, but generally they last a year. There are some working restrictions, but overall they're not too imposing, and you generally get to just live in Japan for a year and experience it. Under this visa you'll have an easier time obtaining a cell phone/etc as well.Living in Japan, Student VisaAgain, one I don't have much experience with, but I believe it's roughly the equivalent of a Working Holiday visa, except based more on schooling requirements than working requirements. You're able to hold a part time job (20 hours or less a week, someone correct me if I'm wrong), and otherwise... no real issues here.Living in Japan, Regular Old VisaNothing much to note here, you'll really end up filling out about as much paperwork as the other visa forms. Think "Student Visa" without the restrictions of working (e.g, you can do just about anything). Getting this is... well, another question entirely.Living in Japan, Investors VisaI've only really heard tale of this, though I wish I knew more. Think "regular old visa" but business-centric.In General...Now, with that all said, there's some general things to note about being a foreigner living in Japan:You'll be filling out a ridiculous amount of paperwork at times.You'll inevitably be asked many of the same questions over and over again about where you're from, why you came to Japan and so forth.If you don't learn the language, you're asking for a miserable experience. A friend once put it best: "you either have escape velocity, or you don't." There are foreigners who've lived here for over ten years and still can't speak a bit of Japanese, and many of them just seem to be fooling themselves into thinking they're happy when in reality they're trapped in their own world.If you live in one of the larger cities (Tokyo, Osaka, etc), you'll never really have too many problems getting around or anything if you don't know the language. More rural areas will give you a headache if you're not prepared.Depending on the area you happen to live in, you'll probably be stared at from time to time. Your options are to just smile, nod and move on with your life, or feel awkward and... well, leave Japan. This probably isn't changing.Even if you can speak some Japanese, speaking to native Japanese people in it will often result in a "oh no, this person can't speak Japanese, I'll try to use English instead" response from them. This can get annoying, but it's bound to happen - just reiterate in Japanese calmly, or switch to English and play the "figure out what they actually mean" game. Not a huge deal, to be honest.Depending on your nationality of origin, dating can vary greatly. This is covered in detail elsewhere, though, so I'll just note it and move on.According to some friends, if you look like you're somewhere you don't belong you can be stopped and asked to show your registration card or passport. I've yet to have this happen, but I imagine it's not out of the question.Converse to the above points, many Japanese people love experiencing other cultures (which is, granted, like much of humanity in general). If you're friendly and outgoing it's actually very easy to get to know people! There's a reason it's known as one of the most polite cultures around.Last but not least...Being a foreigner in Japan is also just entirely what you make of it. If you're naturally outgoing and friendly, and you learn the language, you can have an incredible time in an utterly amazing country. While many of my above points focus more on the difficulties, it's still an experience well worth having; don't be deterred by the ridiculous amount of foreigners who fled Japan after the recent earthquakes either. ;)Disclaimer: Yes, those who know me know my command of the language is nowhere near great, but I'm still learning just like others. At the very least take my word on it and make the effort! It can make all the difference in your experiences here.
As another poster said, it depends on your definition of "living".  In my case, I can give my experience in two scenarios:Living in Japan as a single expatTechnically, I wasn't single.  It's just that I was there without my family.  Anyway, living in Japan is fantastic if you're single.  With no family to go home to, the long hours at work are not a problem.  Besides, you become good friends with your colleagues.  So after work, you tend to go out to eat and drink together.  If you're an extrovert, there's no shortage of friends (both local and foreign) to be made and activities to enjoy.  If you're an introvert, not a problem either.  If you're single, your life in Japan will be flexible and fun.  But if you're not single...Living in Nagoya as a married expat with small childrenSo this was when my family eventually joined me in Japan.  Also, I specifically point out Nagoya because it seems the location matters.  Apparently, Nagoya isn't a very friendly place.  When I complained to some Japanese friends that people in Nagoya weren't very friendly towards foreigners, they told me that people in Nagoya weren't very friendly to other Japanese either.  Obviously, not ALL are unfriendly but it seems enough of them are to get themselves stereotyped.In general though, I'd say that Japan is not very family friendly.  Thanks to the long working hours, you can forget about spending much time with your family.  Not during the week, anyway.  And if you have children under 5 then you can feel like a nuisance to society.  Either that or society is a nuisance to you.There's a lot I can say about living there but to avoid writing a novela, I'll just use bullets to cover some areas and hopefully force myself to get to the point.  In no particular order:Unnecessarily long work hours.  It's the norm in Japan that everyone needs to work long hours.  Employees won't leave the office until the boss does.  If it means surfing the internet, chatting with colleagues, or doing anything else other than work while waiting for your boss to leave then so be it.  It's not really a big deal unless you want to go home as early as possible to spend time with the family.If you have a baby and need a stroller, what a hassle!  Space is a premium in Japan so most places where you need to push your stroller are narrow: doors, corridors, spaces between tables and chairs in restaurants, etc.  This causes inconveniences for you and others.  And others don't seem to hide their annoyance at you.  Forget about bringing your heavy duty stroller from abroad.  To get around, you're going to need a light and compact Japanese model that you can fold and keep in your pocket (ok, I exaggerate).The subway system is excellent!  Unless you have a stroller (or are in a wheel chair for that matter).  Not all subway stations (in Nagoya) have elevators or even escalators.  We lived next to such a station so whenever my wife wanted to go anywhere not walking distance she had to managing going up and down flights of stairs with a stroller, a baby, and a young child.  Did she get any help?  Did I mention that people in Nagoya aren't very friendly?Never mind about not being friendly.  Many are downright rude.  Imagine you get off the subway train and are now waiting for the elevator to take you up.  What many will do, especially teenagers and young adults, is as soon as the elevator doors open they'll just cut in front of you from the sides and fill up the elevator with you still standing outside the elevator waiting to get in.  And it's not because you're a foreigner.  I've seen them do this to others with strollers and even to old people too.Too much cigarette smoke everywhere.  Even in restaurants, the non-smoking section is usually just a small corner in the back.  Yes, they make you walk through all the smoke to get to a not-very-isolated-from-smoke non-smoking section.  Out in public, it can be a challenge if you want your kids to avoid secondhand smoke.At this point it sounds like a lot of complaining.  Actually, I love Japan.  I'd happily live there just for the food alone.  Also, my kids are older now so I'd bring the whole family with me and they'd probably love it too.  It's just that I probably wouldn't want to live in Nagoya if I had small children.Other posters have already given a lot of good information so I thought I'd just give my own specific experience.
The Japanese are very friendly in a Japanese way, with the emphasis on the Japanese ideal of properness. In their social interactions, Japanese are very structured. People are organized into groups, and foreigners fall into the "gaijin" (foreigners) group. This means that they will be friendly and proper, but it also means that there are invisible walls. Some foreigners are bothered by this, feeling that they are never accepted in spite of how long they have lived in Japan, and how fluent they are in Japanese. Others are not so bothered by it; accepting this as a quality of Japanese culture. Frequently the gaijin hang out together. An example is that most foreigners, unless they are married to a Japanese, won't ever go to even their best friends' homes, instead meeting at bars and restaurants. This may even be true for good friends who have known each other for years. Another aspect of Japanese society is their tendency to hide their true feelings, even from their best friends. It isn't unusual for a Japanese to commit suicide, and for their friends not to have a hint that they were depressed. This is almost the opposite of some Americans, who publicly wallow in their own feelings like hippos in mud.This characteristic of the Japanese has led to some really intriguing business opportunities. During New Year's when almost everyone gets together with their family, some lonely Japanese will hire an entire fake family for a family reunion. All of the people who are in this fake family are actors, paid to give that person a happy New Year's experience and don't know each other. Another version is where someone has broken up with his/her boyfriend/girlfriend and can hire someone who resembles them, to play that role for several days. These are some of the more different, even kinky, characteristics of Japanese society. For the large part, Japanese are friendly, affable, charming and intelligent people who are fun to be with. The food, conversation and drinking are good, and there are many things to do. If you understand and accept the borders, you will have a good time even if you live there a long time.
So much depends on when and where you go, and what your expectations are.But in a nutshell:Some Pros:-----------------Safe, law and order societyHigh quality productsGreat foodTOP NOTCH customer serviceSuperb public transportationDeep history/cultureComprehensive national health careGenerally friendly peopleBeautiful mountains/countrysideHigh speed internet infrastructureSome Cons:------------------High to insanely high pricesExtremely muggy summers & heavy rainy seasonDiehard conformity uber allesHorrible noise pollutionLack of product varietySmall, cramped housing & poor insulationDensely overcrowded major citiesExtremely bureaucraticSome lingering small townish attitudesFlatline economy for over 20 yearsDearth of mediaSo depending on what you are looking for, you could have a good or not-so-good experience in Japan. Most people should do pretty well over all though.
Generally, very good.Japan is a great place to live, and certainly one you should experience at least once in your life.Yes, most Japanese people like foreigners! The Japanese people are friendly, although shy. Get a beer in their hands and they'll be your best friend. Sure, the Japanese as a group may be reserved about foreigners but on an individual level they'll be very warm and welcoming. Show a little respect, learn a little of the language and take your shoes off inside... these things go a long way.You get a lot of attention. Let's just say men tend to date girls one or two rank above what they would date "back home" by virtue of being a foreigner. But it's not just there you'll receive attention, it's in general life. In the street, you'll be ignored like everyone else, but in a social situation, particularly with beer involved, people want to talk to you. They are curious. They come out of their shell and ask you lots of questions. It can be a lot of fun.Yes, Japanese language is hard. I've been speaking Japanese for nearly 20 years. My wife is Japanese. And as much as I can converse in Japanese in everyday conversation, what is really hard for me is really basic stuff like reading signs. I can't tell you how frustrating it is trying to work out the controls of a Japanese air conditioning remote control. Simple things like that can get to you! There is discrimination but it's not a show-stopper. Small things that pop up from time to time that wouldn't be acceptable in other countries. You could, for example, be a valid long term resident in Japan but refused a service (like a mobile phone or mortgage) on the basis of being "a foreigner". No other justification apart from being born abroad. Oh, you don't have blonde hair and blue eyes?At first, the Japanese can view the world of foreigners through stereotypes. I don't think it's prejudice more a case of being spoon fed trash media for years, like these TV programs, that reinforces stereotypes. I'm English so I must be a "gentleman" who "likes fish and chips"... yes, that exists but after the first few minutes they realize that foreigners have black hair and brown eyes too... Beyond that, they can be quite accepting and cut you a lot of slack because you are a foreigner. I get out of some social obligations expected of Japanese because I'm foreign, yet get to pick and choose life here as suits our whole family.I think a lot of the posters do a good job of identifying the different perceptions of foreigners and conditions of living here as impacting your experience. I'd like to add something more to the mix...Go Easy on Expat LifeWhether you're black, white, male or female, your experience of living here will be dictated mainly by your own attitude. If you get hangups about being a foreigner, those hangups will manifest as convictions, then prejudices and so on. Outside of group situations, as one-on-one, as friends, Japanese people will generally treat everyone the same and if you find people that don't, there are plenty of people that will.On that basis, it's really important to moderate your exposure to "expat" groups. While these are useful support groups you can be sucked into these bubbles and sit around bitching about the Japanese all day. These people are out there and misery like company.Make a point of making Japanese friends outside your immediate circle.Going the other extreme and avoiding expats altogether is no better. Just make sure you balance your time and get a healthy exposure to all while you're living in Japan.