
This was a moment that I realized I wasn’t in Kansas anymore and that sometimes cultural differences go way beyond what you normally expect.When I was living in Osaka a while back, one of my Japanese friend’s mother owned a kimono shop. Out of her extreme kindness, one summer she made 浴衣 (yukata-summer kimono) for her and several of her friends, which I was one of the lucky recipients. To celebrate, we threw a “yukata party” at a public park.For those not familiar with authentic kimono’s (meaning not cheesy tourist ones), the おび (obi - kimono belt) is quite complicated to tie and the garment itself is has a specific way it’s put on. My friend did her best to assist us but she admitted it had been a long time since her mother showed her the proper way.The four of us, three Japanese women and myself, took the subway so there we were clunking along in our 下駄 ( geta - wooden sandals) all decked out Japanese like through the evening subway rush hour when two おばあちゃん (older women) come directly up to me shaking their heads, obviously displeased and start tugging at my kimono. I had only been in Japan for a little over a year and could only pick out words. Something to keep in mind, I’m Korean-American so most Japanese people assume I’m Japanese. I highly doubt they would do this to someone they thought was non-Japanese.These two 60-ish women start pulling off my おび and undoing my kimono RIGHT in the middle of the subway rush hour, people pushing to get around us on both sides. I thought they were offended because they thought a non-Japanese person shouldn’t be wearing a kimono but my friend informed me that while she remembered how to tie a woman’s kimono, she had to guess at mine and she ended up tying it backwards. At this point they had gotten to the inner ties and my tiddy whities (white guy’s underwear to the non-Americans) started showing for the entire Friday night rush hour to view. I’m doing my best to still stop them but the old ladies were on a mission. I told them I was only in my underwear but they told me to not be shy and they were just old ladies, they didn’t care. What I did care was the thousands of people walking by who by that time started to stare which is pretty hard to get someone’s attention when they are walking at warp speed during their commute.They finally caved in and pulled me off to the side into one of the shopping halls, so instead of having thousands of people walk by it was now only hundreds. I also caved and let them go at it unhindered. My friends were pretty much laughing for a solid 5 mins and decided it was a great time to create some lasting memories on film.In the end, my kimono and belt were tied correctly, I thanked them for their service and they walked off grinning with a great sense of satisfaction. I learned a lot of things from that experience, one of them that lots of things are supposed to be done a certain way and when it’s not, people aren’t shy about pointing it out to you.
In Osaka, I used to take the monorail home from university later in the evenings.They always looked a lot like this. Every night, exhausted workers commuting home late either from the office or drinking with colleagues. Very quiet.This particular night, two younger working men hopped on the train. They were deep in discussion, but my Japanese wasn’t at the point to understand exactly what about. They were arguing about something. Something felt off about the way they were speaking, I could tell that much.It happened out of nowhere. I was watching them in the glass reflection. The considerably heavier man slowly turns to face his ‘friend’ with visible rage, and lunges at him. He seized him by the collar, both hands. He was basically on top of him, pinning him hard against the seat.What shocked me at this point is that no one reacts. Everyone close by merely shifts seats and averts their gaze. There’s only one other older man that stands and softly asks them to stop. Not helping.So I step in, unable to use words but instead getting up from the other side of the carriage, trying to pull the bigger guy off. He was just too… big. Somehow I did make things clearly awkward, and they stopped. The bigger guy made some mega-rude remarks and attempted one last roundhouse kick at his friend(?), getting off at the next station.And the few standing sat down again, like nothing had happened.Public incidents like these were rare, but the response was always the same.
One of the other replies reminds me of an experience of my own. I was in Tokyo for a week for a conference. Never having been to Japan before, I decided to spend an extra weekend. On the advice of a friend from Japan, I went to Hakone. After the end of the conference on a Friday, I traveled by various trains and so got into my hotel somewhat late.I stayed at the Fujiya Hotel (Fujiya Hotel (Official website)) which is a beautiful, historic, Western-style hotel originally built in 1878. If you go to their website, you’ll find a long list of famous people who have stayed there. The lobby is quite beautiful.I had a roll aboard suitcase and a backpack. I’d dragged them all over Tokyo and from the train station to the hotel (though I think I could have gotten them to pick me up). As I’m checking in, a bellman with an assistant come by with a large cart and pretty much insist upon taking my two small bags. I’d prefer to just take them to my room myself, but I’m not up to arguing.It turns out that my room is in the far reaches of the hotel. As we’re walking there, the bellman is describing all the features of the hotel. He’s also making polite conversation. When we get to the room, he explains all the details of the room, particularly taking time for the things that could be confusing to a foreigner like the TV, the heating system, and the bathroom.From my reading and from my experience in Tokyo, I know that tips are uncommon in Japan. However, the bellman had been much more friendly and helpful than the person who took me to my room in Tokyo. I finally conclude that being a Western-style hotel that caters to foreigners, this guy has figured out that he can get tips. I don’t like the idea that I’m being considered a soft touch as a foreigner, but I have to admit that he’s done a really good job, even if I didn’t ask for the help.It’s when I reach into my pocket to pull out some money and see the horrified look on his face that I finally understand. He and the hotel believe in providing excellent service. The fact that I had only small bags (and was in a cheap room) didn’t mean that I was entitled to any different service than someone who had arrived in a limo with an entourage and was staying in a suite. I truly hope that my travels take me back there someday.
I was in Osaka and wanted to visit Osaka Science Museum. I was couchsurfing, my host showed me the directions to the museum in the early morning with her drawings on my ‘Japanese city map’. (Unfortunately, I had taken the wrong map from the airport when I arrived in Osaka) I didn’t quite understand the directions but thought I can figure it out anyway.I hit the road early in the morning. I hop on the subway and went to the main subway station as she instructed. I supposed to find the train that goes to the science museum. Yet, I found nothing! I wanted to ask someone but people were all running around in the station. I even couldn’t stop anyone! I was desperately looking around to find someone to ask where the hell is this museum!Source: Google ImagesAfter 10 minutes of struggle, I finally got to see an old lady standing by the wall. I literally ran there before she disappears into the crowd. I asked her how can I go to this museum. She gave me a very weird look and started saying something in Japanese. I understand that she doesn’t speak a word of English. I ended up explaining myself with using my lousy body language. I opened my huge handy Japanese map and showed her the pinned place that I’d like to go. She seemed like she got me this time.She holds my hand and we started going outside of the subway station. I was like NO, NO, we shouldn’t go outside. We should take the train near the subway. I tried to explain her but she was so determined to take me out of that place. We passed by the bus station and I showed her the busses so maybe we can take a bus. She nodded her head with disagreement and still walk me outside of that place!After a minute of walking, I saw cabs near the main road. I understand she is taking me there. I knew that cabs are super expensive in Japan and I’d be broke if I get on that cab! I told her I don’t want to take a cab but nothing stopped this determined lady from taking me to that museum. She held my arm again and gently invited me in. She let me get on first and then she hopped on and we started heading to the museum. On the way, I was trying to enjoy my ‘luxury cab ride’ with this old lady! After 15 minutes of the ride, we finally got to the place! I asked how much should I pay. Lady nodded her head with disagreement and told me “thank you” and gave me a big smile while she is opening the door for me to get off. I was shocked! I told her at least let’s split it! She gave me the biggest smile again and they drive off. I was in shock and couldn’t move my body for some time!I did understand that there are very friendly and thoughtful people living in Japan!
The whole train map is in Japanese.The first day I arrived with my parents we encountered this. We were clueless. All we knew was to go to the ticket counter and hopefully operate it in English.We still had trouble using the machine and were stuck. A Japanese business man, dressed in his suit, came up to us with the brightest smile on his face and offered his help for us.He ended up guiding us through the ticket machine and where to go exactly. The man then escorted us to the platform at this station, waited for the train to arrive and then left. He told us that he actually had to use another route to his office.He was so generous. Too generous even. He took time out of his morning rush hour to make three strangers a really enjoyable start to the day. He probably even got late to work.Have you experienced this before?Thanks for the read! Follow me on Twitter: https://twitter.com/pati_pandi