
Conformity is a problem that is particuarly prominent in Tokyo life. Anything someone does that breaks the societal norms (even if they are in a good way) is generally frowned upon and very often, shamed.That conformity itself is the flip side of the coin to cohesion and cohesion is what enables the society to operate marvelously on a functional level and that for me is one of the greatest aspects of Tokyo life.
According to the site below,【東京の悪いところランキング】1位は「家賃や駐車場代が高い」 アンケート結果 ： 何でも調査団（@niftyニュース） - 【東京の悪いところランキング】1位は「家賃や駐車場代が高い」：何でも調査団The flaws of Tokyo are 1. high rent and parking fee, 2. overcrowded with people and 3. high prices.For 1., if you live in Minato-ku, a high class area, in an apartment with one room and a kitchen, the rent will be $1200 on average. However, rent is not so expensive in some areas, like Ikebukuro. And you don’t need a car in Tokyo because the public transportation system is great.For 2., Trains in rush hours are hell. People are shoved into small trains like broiler fowls. If you stand near the doors, you need to get off every time the train arrives stations because a crowd of goes out of the train and you are pushed out. When you arrived at your destination you need to “swim” through people to get out of the train. After you finish your work and go home, you can see people rush into train as the doors open to take seats, to take a good rest at the end of the hard working day.For 3., in supermarkets prices are generally as high as other rural areas. Vegetables are a little bit more expensive. Prices at restaurants are the same if they are franchise ones. Otherwise, for example, it can happen that you can eat lunch at $8 in a rural area and at $16 in Tokyo.Other flaws are…4. it is hard to find day-care centers for childrenThere are 8000 children waiting for their turn to get into day-care center in Tokyo. It is not a good environment to raise children. The present governor is trying to solve this issue now.5. bad working environmentIt is hard to take annual paid leaves. You often need to work overtime unpaid which is illegal, but the “air” or conformity make you do that. And the labor standards bureau is not working well. In many companies you need to work until the time of your last train. Some die from karoshi. last year a lady in Dentsu, one of the largest advertisement companies, committed suicide working 105 hour overtime a month. The company was criticized from the society and the president resigned taking responsibility. Wage floor and labor productivity is very low among OECD countries. It is hard to take a long vacation. Summer holidays are normally about 5 days. On the other hand, people can take a 1 month vacation in France. Japanese working environment is like trash.6. Self-responsibility in a bad senseThis issue started lately. Increasing number of people are criticizing the victims or poverty, bully and sex crimes that it is their fault to fall into situations like that. You are poor because your effort wasn’t enough. You are bullied because you did something wrong. You were sexually assaulted because you dressed like that. So you don’t deserve other’s supports and have to solve your problem on your own. This movement is called a self-responsibility theory. The supporters of the theory is narrow sighted because there are some causes not related to the victims. They lack imagination and tolerance. They don’t care about the backgrounds and circumstances of people in trouble. This movement is particularly prominent in Internet where people can express their ideas anonymously. This campaign began maybe because people were stressed out from two decades of economic slump and financial crisis in 2008.
Obviously completely personal editorial, but I strongly believe that there are many outdated ideals in Japanese society that just don’t work in an interconnected global world.One example is the fact that Japanese people genuinely believe that Japan is an “island nation”, often used as an excuse for the general population to be ignorant of global reality.Anyway, after coming back and forth between Tokyo for 15 years now, translating at a law firm, and living in Tokyo for the last 7 years, the things that I view as flaws in this society areSuffocating bureaucracy on every level: I once asked my boss if I should use plain white paper or paper with the company letter head for finished translations and it took my boss several days to confer with colleagues and give me the answer “keep doing what you’re doing”.Ignorance of politics/issues by voters.Privatization of public services. This is a problem because of the above ignorance of what’s going on by the public. It’s often up for debate on whether this is a good thing, but I look at the Denden kosha becoming NTT - KDD, etc., the Japan postal service, JR train system, and others and think it’s terrible for most people.Public debt. Japan has a huge public debt which it plans to combat through weakening the yen and increasing inflation, which is maybe good for corporations, but individuals are going to have it rough.Growing age problem. The prices for everything in Japan are high, and many young people can’t afford or are simply choosing not to get married and have children. This is causing a low birth rate and a rapidly aging society. They literally sell more adult diapers than child diapers in Japan.Sexism. This is or is not a problem, depending on whom you ask.Daycare is very rare and pretty much unrealistic for many working families.Entrepreneurship is extremely rare compared to most other developed countries. High barriers to entry, lack of venture capital, and severe consequences for failure deter new entrepreneurs.Incredible intentional noise pollution. From sellers of roasted potatoes, cops telling you to be careful while crossing the street, or political campaigning, Japanese people love to yell through megaphones.Way too many rules. People have a very hard time knowing what to do when there isn’t a rule in place, because there’s a rule for most situations.People can’t walk in straight lines or watch where they’re walking. You think i’m exaggerating, but i’m not. I see people walk into things, and other people, way more than you would expect.Unnecessary public spending. It’s hard to rationalize the amount of community centers and bridges to nowhere.Lack of volunteering. I looked quite hard for a way to volunteer and ended up having to use “Hands on Tokyo” which is actually from New York.As one last example, I feel like there’s been a lack of intellectual vigor lately. The number of compelling novelists and thinkers has seemed to drop. While authors like Haruki Murakami are finding international success through weighty tomes thick with pop-culture references, there don’t seem to be any modern Dazai Osamu, Shuusaku Endo types. It’s obviously completely circumstantial evidence, but the reluctance to have any sort of confrontation can lead to a reluctance to have any sort of intellectual conversations. People complain that there’s too much drinking, adultery, prostitution, etc., but maybe it’s a byproduct of people not knowing how to find meaning in their lives.Anyway, that’s just my two yen on the subject, and how i’m feeling at this particular moment.
Most of the answers here have nailed it. I’d just add a really poor road system and so little greenery in Tokyo. The Japanese never took advantage of the destruction of the city in WW2 to widen roads and create parks. The expressway system was built for the 1964 Olympics and is now totally inadequate. Added to that is inadequate preparation for the next big earthquake. In many areas no place to escape to.The other major flaw is the amount of incessant and often unnecessary noise. You get told on trains twice the name of the next stop, and each time told not to forget your belongings. Music played in swimming pools! Heavy metal in some coffee shops. Right wingers blasting out high decibel fascist messages. The Japanese just don’t seem to have caught on to the idea that noise is a form of pollution and that it increases stress levels. They are very sensitive visually and kinaesthetically, but seem impervious to high levels of sound.
It is difficult to answer because what one person might consider a flaw might also be considered a cultural preference. Here are few things though that do not work so well in Japan -Daycare. The actual “care” is high quality, but it is hell to get access to that care. There are not enough facilities available, there are waiting lists, point systems for government certified/subsidized centers, etc. It is a real pain in the ass for anyone, everyone, who has children.Expectations of conformity in the services/retail. Services are built around a certain concept of how people live. Want to go to the gym at 6 AM before work? No can do. Why? Because of course people don’t do that. Women stay home and go to the gym starting at 10AM. Men work really hard all day and then go to the gym after work or on weekends. This is just one example, but once you live here for awhile you will see abundant examples. Services and retail are all built around this idea that men work in offices (i.e. not from home ever) all day and come home late while women start the day at 10AM and do not work. It really is not that uniformly true in 2017, it is just a sort of collective assumption.Outdated corporate life. While there has been some s-l-o-w progress in modernizing the office, Japan is sort of in the late 90s in terms of corporate expectations. Work from home is prohibited or just frowned upon. Paper - God the paper! Why must we print everything out in 2017!?! And the IT - I swear to you, if Microsoft doesn’t stop supporting an OS or app, we will just keep using it forever.