
Your question casts an extremely negative aspersion upon Japanese culture which I think is unwarranted and based on misunderstanding some things about it.Japan UniquenessA sense of self centered entitlement and superiority is a negative in Japanese culture. Yet historically, Japanese have been taught to believe, by virtue of its strong cultural sense and self supporting sense of membership, that their culture is unique at its core. It isn’t considered a good thing to thump your chest and exclaim “I am special and entitled to be different from everyone else!” but it is okay to generally agree with the group that the group has some outstanding qualities that work really well. For some, they do carry this sense of Japanese cultural uniqueness to the extreme and it comes off as a superiority complex. But for most Japanese people, it isn’t that strong.In general, this isn’t a bad thing. So what if you think your culture is special? As long as you work hard and are honest and sensitive to others, it isn’t necessarily a negative (though anything carried to the extreme can be).Japan AdaptionWhen you look at products and trends that get ‘copied’ you also have to look closely at what the Japanese are actually doing with it. Typically what happens is that someone takes an object or concept and then refines it to make it more palatable for Japanese tastes or Japanese lifestyles. And sometimes, those modifications prove to be so superior to the original developers that they come to compete with or dominate the market in the original country.For example, the 3.5 inch floppy disk was developed in Japan, even though everyone in the computer industry was currently using the big 5 inch ‘floppy’ floppy.Another greater example were Japanese made cars. The first that were marketed in the United States were not well adapted to US customer needs, but the ‘continuous refinement” (kaizen) philosophy not only lead to better adaptation but also to better reliability (over American cars).Don’t get me wrong - I have met my share of Japanese culture snobs that look down on anything that isn’t Japanese. But those snobs don’t represent what there every day person thinks.
There are two separate assumptions in your question.First is about Japanese who think about their culture as superior to anything else. While there are some uneducated Japanese who think like that this is not the majority opinion.The second is copycatting culture. You might be surprised to know that this is pretty much how Japanese business works. Very few businesses create any innovations, most just copy each other with varying level of success. Not just West, but anything is copied and that's normal, this is how things are done in Japan.
I think what Japanese notice is that service in Japan is superior, work ethic is more intense, and quality, in general, is better and they may extrapolate this to be that their culture is generally superior. On the other hand, they are copying marketable products, industrial processes, really anything from anywhere that they think will improve society, government or business. They disregard the parts they don't like as soon as they realize that the parts don't improve anything. These two phenomena are not mutually exclusive in Japanese culture, in fact, they are both part of the cultural drive for constant improvement. They studied and copied from the Chinese prior to Europe when they thought that would be profitable to them, too.