
Your neighbour’s father once came to your house when you were still a baby. He asked your father to give up the house because he is much better at managing it. Your father refused. So he killed your father, raped your mother and killed her, took your brother to some terrible experiments and killed him, raped your elder sister to death and killed your little sister who was only 2 months old at the time.Your neighbor’s mother, at the same time, was so proud of what her husband had done. She made nice meal for him and wished him can kill some more in your home. And then, someone stronger came, killed your neighbour’s mother and made the man stop. However the man gave all that he took from your house, like the data of experiments on your brother, to that someone for exchange. So, that someone let him go, freely. But, well, that's another story. Let's come back to you and your neighbor.To be fair, both you and your current neighbor were too young to remember anything back that time. Now you grow up and his dad is dead already. Well, the past is the past, let it go, you thought.But the other day, you passing your neighbor’s house and find, oh, he is having a celebrating party. A party, cool, you thought.“What is the party for?” you ask.“For my feather and his great killing skill and the glory fight that he won from your father!” he said, looking in your eyes with a lovely smile, “the past is past, you won't mind right?”“Yes!He is so cuuute! His mother was also killed! He is a victim! You must forgive him, you bad Chinese!” shout someone who watched this.
Chinese have every right to be hateful to Japan, because of what they did.That being said, the past is the past, and most Japanese people are not like that now, but when you hurt a people as much as they did back then, it's difficult to move on. For many Chinese, it's impossible to move on.That being said, it doesn't help that 40% of Chinese television is war against Japan shows and movies. That and parents and teachers religiously teach their children that Japan is bad, and we must hate them.I have had many students, 6 and 7 years old, who tell me “I hate Japan! I want them to burn!” And I just frown and say “Why?” They say “Because they are bad, that's why!”There's nothing we can do about it when it's a part of their culture to hate Japan.Answer: Why? Because it's a popular idea that sells, and remembering what they did to China back then puts a fire in many Chinese hearts, one that us foreigners just cannot begin to comprehend.In a way similar to any blockbuster film about Iraq and 9/11.
Not that hateful as you thought. Haha.In the Chinese quora, zhihu, there is a serial of questions “How developed/good is XXX(a certain country)”. The number of views and followers may show the attitude of zhihu users.Question: How Good is Japan? follower 34340 view 8899366Question: How Developed is Japan? follower 82160 view 8389399And for the US:Question: How Developed is the US? follower 32886 view 1256134for northern EuropeQuestion: How Developed is northern Europe? follower 10569 view 438076for the UK, France and GermanySo….among all the main developed country in this world, we like Japan the most…
well for starters, all of the japanese pms refuse to acknowledge the war crimes committed - apologies were half hearted and me, a westernized chinese person will still boycott japanese products simply because in 1940, my grandfather and 4 other relatives of mine were brutally executed while fighting the japs - no pow camps - just a bayonet through your chest - my great-grandmother had to throw my grandmother into the bushes so the japanese wouldn’t find my grandmother and kill her or perform sick and twisted experiments on her - they did this to basically the entire country of china - every single chinese person in china has an extremely personal connection like melets not forget to mention that shinzo abe still goes to shrines honouring war criminals
I am tired of these questions polluting my FEED. Just one last time.There's a special shrine in Japan, 護国神社/shrine honouring the war dead, which has branches (shrines are like banks) in almost all the Japanese cities.What does the war dead mean?Including all the killers who had invaded my motherland in the history, from the first Sino-Japan war, Russo-Japan war (occured in China), the illegal occupation of NorthEast China, to the WW2.Including those who attacked Pearl Harbour, and who slaughtered and enslaved countless East/SouthEast Asian people.These war criminals have been and will be honoured officially in Japanese shrines.Current Japan has no part in the military past? What are you talking about: Abe Shinzo’s grandpa is a A class war criminal.Given the killer shows no regret, are you asking me why we are not polite?