
For spiritual differences, we must find spiritual causes. When we say “South Korea has many more churches than Japan” we should pin point an example. What about beginning at the obvious: the largest church in the world, perhaps the largest single church in the history of Christianity, is Yoido Full Gospel Church. It has 800,000 members in one church, and this church has planted many other churches in Korea. To what can we attribute its meteoric rise? The founder David Yonggi Cho attributes the growth of his church and the revival in South Korea to one critical key: prayer.South Koreans are so serious about prayer than most churches schedule 5am prayer for business people to attend before going to work, many churches run 24 hours of continuous prayer chains, and several of the big churches have bought up entire mountains dedicated to prayer (called “Prayer Mountains”). God promised national revival to those who pray and seek His face:“If my people, which are called by my name, shall humble themselves, and pray, and seek my face, and turn from their wicked ways; then will I hear from heaven, and will forgive their sin, and will heal their land.” (2 Chronicles 7:14 KJV)If it were true that ethnic and identity politics could explain everything about the spiritual differences between Korea and Japan, it would follow that North Korea should have more Christian churches than Japan, just like South Korea. This of course is far from the truth.Spiritual phenomena have spiritual roots. The argument about imperialism bringing Christianity over to South Korea should work equally for Japan, which also received an influx of Western influence post-WWII. Arguably Japan Westernized faster than Korea and accepted American economic models faster than Korea, so why not also accept Christian churches?The spiritual difference between Japan and Korea is not something most Japanese want to admit or hear about. The root of the spiritual stagnation can be traced back to Japan’s historic persecution of Christianity, dating as far back as 1597, the first recorded crucifixion of 26 Christian martyrs at Nagasaki.From 1617 to 1632, about 205 missionaries and local Japanese Christian converts were tortured and executed for their faith in Jesus Christ. Persecution of Christians continued intensely through the 1600s, during the Tokugawa shogunate period, and the epicenter was Nagasaki.Is it not possible the sins of fathers have placed a curse on generations of descendants who have forgotten the murders, yet God has not forgetten? The Bible is clear that violence, especially cruelty against the children of God, puts a curse on the land. “…The land was polluted with blood.” (Psalm 106:38, Numbers 35:33) God loves Japan, and as more Japanese awaken to spiritual realities, and humble themselves and pray with repentance, I believe there is no reason why Japan should not experience revival to a similar or greater degree than South Korea.You may be interested in Discover Ministries series on how the Bible came to Asia: “How We Got the Bible?” How We Got The Bible SeriesAnd how to contextualize the Gospel in different cultures: World Missions SeriesComparative religion study of Buddhism & Christianity: From Buddha to Jesus: An Insider's View of Buddhism & ChristianityConnect socially with Steve CioccolantiYOUTUBE https://www.youtube.com/Discover...FACEBOOK https://www.facebook.com/discoverministry/GOOGLE+ https://plus.google.com/+Discove...INSTAGRAM https://www.instagram.com/stevec...TWITTER https://twitter.com/cioccolanti
Why does South Korea have so many churches while Japan does not?Japan has fewer churches because it has significantly fewer Christians.Which means that your question should really be this:Why does South Korea have so many more Christians than Japan?The popularity of Christianity within South Korea is a side-effect of Korea’s occupation by Japan from 1910–1945. The Japanese tried to kill Korean shamanism while simultaneously trying to transform Korean Buddhism to the Japanese style. But Japan didn’t discourage Christian missionaries within Korea, so Christianity was quickly adopted there as a form of anti-Japanese protest.I know that this answer seems simple, but it really wasn’t more complicated than that.
Korea has more churches because of the influx of Christians rising.The increase started Korean independence movement relied heavily on opposing Japanese culture. Korean nationalism played into affect when the Imperialist tried to make Korea a Shinto state.Everything that objected their rule was regarded as resistance. Government officials such as Syngman Rhee were Methodists and preferred a Christian dominated state. Strange how after Rhee came into office, the 2% Christian population became a 30% right?Korea had practiced Buddism and Confucius principles for more then 2 Millenia. Even after Christianity arrived in the 16th century, it only became a dominant force after the Imperial incursion.It was a form of resistance that tied into the Korean society today. And it's also why the Japanese still have Shintoism and Buddism as the state religion, since no nation opposed their religious rights.Now the Korean Christians (whom were praised for their efforts against Japan) are now the Mormons of the society. Everyday you hear some loud mouthed imbecile preaching in the train or in the streets while others compete for work hours.It saddens me to see how our native religion (which coexisted with each other for a long time) is being crushed by overly zealous missionaries and the affects of imperialism.