
Japan is safe for four main reasons. I'll compare it to America since that's where I'm from:Japan is much more ethnically homogenous. Racial tensions are tiny compared to the U.S.Japan is much more economically homogenous. Income differences are very small compared to the States. This leads to less jealousy and incentive to rob/steal. CEOs don't take multi-million dollar bonuses when the company is in trouble. This is closely related to the third reason...Group mentality is emphasized over the individual. This has its down side but I've seen it work wonders for creating harmony in school, the work-place, and in times of disaster.No guns. Actually, you're not even allowed to walk around with a knife in your bag. Straight to jail. Some of my friends argue that having a gun keeps them safe. But if you need a gun to be safe, you're not in a safe place.I'm happy to be raising my son in Japan.I write about Japan here: 2AM Tokyo
During my eight years in Japan, I've been to my share of conferences and they've covered all sorts of topics. Some are repeated every year – like "Successful Team Teaching" and "Fostering Student Communication." A few topics provided life-saving information like how to perform CPR, use an AED, and prepare for an earthquake. Others pointed out the obvious, like not destroying hotels rooms or driving under the influence.One crucial topic remained curiously ignored, however: staying safe in Japan.But Japan ranks as one of the world's safest countries! Home to an incredibly low crime rate! The chances of anything bad happening are slim to none, right? Why worry?Ironically, Japan's reputation for safety gives the issue even more importance. Don't get me wrong, Japan is safe; safer than the countries most foreigners in Japan hail from. But that feeling of safety makes it easy to grow too comfortable, too complacent. And that's where danger lies.Japan's crime rate may be low, but crime still exists. The special circumstances foreigners in Japan face as unique individuals in a homogenous society make the topic all the more important for visitors and ex-pats alike.But fear not! An ounce of prevention can be all it takes to avoid becoming part of the small percentage of victims.JAPAN'S SAFE REPUTATIONA 2014 Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development study ranked Japan as "the safest country in the world." The country touts "the second-lowest homicide rate after Iceland and the second-lowest assault rate after Canada."So it's no surprise that people in Japan feel safe. Nationmaster.com, a site dedicated to statistical information of countries around the world, lists Japan as number one in people feeling safe walking alone at night. In overallworries about being attacked, Japanese citizens ranked third least worried. Living in Japan offers the undeniable luxury of safe feeling.Rocketnews24 seconds that notion. In a poll ranking "the top ten instances people feel thankful to be Japanese,"public order and safety ranked second behind Japanese food. One participant commented, "I can sleep on the train in peace, and even if I walk alone at night, it's not as dangerous as it is overseas." Interestingly, that comment was made by a 23-year-old female, a member of one of the most at-risk demographics.The media, both in Japan and abroad, promote this safe, worry-free atmosphere. To people overseas, Japan's low crime rates seem like an amazing oddity. Children walk home and explore shopping malls with no adult supervision. Lone women stroll back allies and dark streets in both populated and unpopulated areas. People leave bags unattended while going to the bathroom.I'm not alone in these observations. Lucy Rodgers of BBC News explained, "I had been informed that Japanese people did not lock their doors, left their cars running with the keys in the ignition and would never rip you off."Japan's lack of crime and worry in everyday life shocks visitors used to caution as an everyday practice. Unaccompanied children riding the subway astounded Michael Weening in his article entitled "Is Tokyo Really Safe?" His blog continued the tale of how a man came to Mr. Weening's aid when he had lost his way in the mountains. His reply to the title question: "The answer is yes, (Tokyo) is that safe."Anecdotes like that are common. An internet search brings up stories of lost wallets being found and returned with money intact, bicycles and even homes being unlocked with no negative consequence.Japan's lack of crime makes headlines, impresses tourists, and provides a point of pride for the country and its citizenry. Japanese citizens worry about crime less than any other people in the world. The message is clear – Japan is safe.But examples of safety are just that, examples. Remember, a low crime rate doesn't mean crime doesn't exist. That fact is key to avoiding victimization.FOREIGNERS' SPECIAL CIRCUMSTANCESIn a homogenous country like Japan, physical differences stand out. Size, hair-color, eye-color, skin color, and language all highlight the fact someone is not "Japanese." Foreigners stick out as exotic exceptions to the average Japanese build and appearance.Considering the permeation and popularity of western culture and the English language, this can attract both wanted and unwanted attention. Lucy Rodgers explains,"There is a certain fascination – which may have something to do with how foreigners are portrayed on the TV – and you are probably the closest thing some people have to meeting such people, particularly in more rural areas." Any foreigner asked to take photos with random bystanders can attest to feeling like a pseudo-celebrity.The less foreign people in a particular area, the more one stands out. This is particularly true for foreigners in small towns and secluded areas, where your name, address, and job become common knowledge. Random people might (think they) know your favorite foods, the onsen you frequent, your hobbies, or your love life.Those with an interest in English may seek you out, hoping to practice. Some even go as far to make you feel it's your duty to provide such services – you know, being a foreigner in Japan and all.Usually it's just fun, innocent gossip. Local foreigners provide an exotic flavor to everyday life and a chance to learn about life and culture beyond Japan. But occasionally those with an interest in foreigners, particularly of the opposite sex, aren't so innocent.Holly Lanasolyluna of The Japan Times writes, "In a way, white women become plastic here: imports without feelings — strange, exotic dolls. And if we are dolls, perhaps the groping, leering, stalking and attacking is somehow justified in the perpetrator's mind as a game rather than a crime."Despite the feeling of safety, people can feel reluctant to get involved, even when a crime is taking place. Holly Lanasolyluna reveals the details of an attack that occurred in Osaka. It was 10am when a stranger overpowered her and dragged her towards a love hotel.Perhaps the language barrier is partially to blame. Even police officers fear dealing with communication difficulties. Attackers can feign ignorance if faced with charges. Add a culture of looking the other way to the mix and you have ingredients for disaster when the rare attack strikes."I now know I can't rely on the goodwill of strangers, as I have in the past when I was verbally harassed in countries such as Mexico," Lanasolyluna admits.But just how rare are these kinds of attacks?WOMEN'S SPECIAL CIRCUMSTANCESSource: ShadowgateHolly Lanasolyluna's police officer blamed her for the attack, "You're a young girl, and maybe you shouldn't be out by yourself alone at night.""No details about the incident were recorded," she reveals, "Not only had every bystander ignored my pleas for help, but the police had also given me a terribly disappointing response – basically, 'Shō ga nai, ne?' (What can you do, eh?)."Confused and ashamed, Lanasolyluna took the situation to the internet. The results were disturbing.She's not alone, Vivian Morelli of Japan Today writes:The harsh reality is, women experience a greater rate of attacks no matter the location. In The Gift of Fear, Gavin de Becker explains, "Women… live with a constant wariness. Their lives are literally on the line in ways men just don't experience… At core, men are afraid women will laugh at them, while at core women are afraid men will kill them"(77).Although these personal accounts don't represent the norm, it's important to take them into consideration. When it comes to one's safety, it's better to err on the side of caution.Is Japan safe? Yes.Is it one hundred percent safe? No.Is it as safe as Japan would like us to believe? Apparently not.THE HORRIBLE TRUTHSource: Nicholas WevurskiThese accounts add suspicion to the growing evidence of police misappropriation of data in Japan. As a result, crime rates are higher than "official" reports would lead us to believe. By ignoring or failing to report crimes, particularly "unsolvable" crimes, Japan's law enforcement agencies keep crime rates low and success rates high.In 2014 Asahi Shinbun broke news on police data manipulation in Osaka.Osaka police have admitted they did not report more than 81,000 offenses over a period of several years in a desperate bid to clean up the region's woeful reputation for street crime. The revelation came earlier this week when embarrassed authorities said they had kept the data out of national crime statistics between 2008 and 2012… The vast majority of covered-up crimes were for theft… but hundreds of more serious offenses such as muggings and even murder may have been omitted from official crime data.Havard Bergo of Nation Master Blog writes, "Former detectives claim that police (are) unwilling to investigate homicides unless there is a clear suspects and frequently labels unnatural deaths as suicides without performing autopsies."Bruce Wallace of the Los Angeles Times blames a taboo in regards to handling the dead, but criticizes instances of falsified autopsies.Instances of falsified data force us to view crime rates with a shrewd eye and remind us not to grow too complacent. Perhaps Japan's crime rate statistics are too good to be true.After the attacks, Holly Lanasolyluna reveals,Lucy Rodgers admits growing too comfortable after her arrival in Kochi, a rural prefecture in Shikoku. But a highly publicized attack changed Rodgers attitude. The lesson learned is one that anyone visiting or living in Japan should take to heart. Rodgers explains, "The incident was an early warning to all of us that Japan may not be as safe as it first appeared."When we constantly feel and are told we are safe, we start to believe it and drop our guards. We might leave a bicycle unlocked one day. Then a second. Then it becomes a habit until one day the bicycle disappears.Lucy Rodgers puts it best, "There are always exceptions to the rule, and you need to remember that."PLEASE STAY SAFE AND ENJOY JAPAN!Source: GuwashiMy arrival in Tokyo in the summer of 2007 coincided with one of Japan's most intense manhunts. Lindsay Hawker, an English teacher, had been murdered by one of her male students. The haunting wanted posters served as a reminder that even in a country as safe as Japan, we should always be cautious.Yet, amidst all the media coverage and activity, the issue of safety was never brought up in work related meetings, lectures, or events. Hopefully it'll never be necessary, but The Gift of Fear inspired me to write this piece, thinking it might help someone, someday.Japan is an amazing place with amazing people. Despite a higher crime rate than official data implies, it's still an astonishingly safe country. The Japan Times points out, "Even though the economy has been in the doldrums for two decades, the crime rate has not risen the way it often does in countries facing tough times." But even if Japan was as safe as statistics imply, it's still best to use caution.Like CPR, AED, and earthquake lectures, I present this article hoping to offer useful, empowering information without any intent to fear-monger or victim-blame. And please remember, there is no fool-proof way to avoid crime, but learning a few strategies can help prevent the worst."I would have gone anywhere and done anything," Lucy Rodgers admits. "Especially where I was in rural Japan, but also in the big cities, everyone is so generous and friendly, you forget about safety issues. You don't have the radar for it (danger) anymore."Please take caution, keep your danger radar turned on and protect yourself. Enjoy everything Japan has to offer, but never lose sight of possible dangers.Source: https://www.tofugu.com/japan/saf... 
The others have made a number of valid points.  I would add the following:1.  There is a high level of tolerance of others.  In part this has to do with being a more homogeneous society, but it also has to do with ingrained and mostly subconscious Buddhist/Zen thought that is now mostly secular in nature.  2.  There is less gratuitous self-righteousness, about rights being violated over every little thing or picking apart every little injustice (they exist, though).  This has its pluses and minuses tbut it makes for calmer minds, less violence down the road, and a more peaceful daily existence. 3. The level of consideration of others is high and is maintained publicly regardless of what private options may be for the few bad eggs.  This attitude carries over at all levels and is taught from early ages.  This dampens rage, outbursts, attacks, and other acts of violence.  4.  They bend over backwards to find a non confrontational approach to solving problems.In short, the high level of safety in Japan  has a lot to do not only with strict anti-gun laws, carefully drawn line with criminal elements (see Michael Turner's comments), but also with generally more forgiving attitudes (though close friends will talk about their frustrations at times--no mistake there!), a non-confrontational approach to solving conflicts, and a willingness to give others the benefit of the doubt (often well beyond the line of tolerance).  And any number of times, I've seen those Japanese who stepped over the line, return, apologize, and move on.  Endlessly fascinating stuff.
I have spent quite a bit of time in Japan, not living there, but doing business there.  So maybe not quite as much of an expert as some.I agree with 90% of the answers here.  The ones that don't seem to ring quite true are the ones that imply that there's just as much crime in Japan as anywhere else, but it's just not reported, or it's ignored by the police as they co-exist with the Yakuza.Yes, the Yakuza represent organized crime in Japan.  But my experience is that they don't commit crime on law abiding citizens.  They provide 'services' that might not be looked on as desirable by most of society to those who seek out those services.  They look after their interests in perhaps, shall we say, indelicate, maybe even occasionally violent ways.  But unless you're looking for trouble, trouble won't find you.  They won't break into your home to steal.  They won't mug you on the street.And yes the police have an improbably high rate of solving crimes and getting convictions, some convictions being dubious.And yes, there is bullying in Japan and there is some sexual violence.But in my experience none of this accounts for the huge discrepancies between Japanese crime rates and western crime rates.A business colleague of mine tells the following story.  He grew up in a tough neighborhood in Philadelphia.  On his first business trip to Japan he noticed vending machines on the streets that sold beer.  He was amazed.  He couldn't understand how this could be legal.  What stopped teenagers from buying beer?  Even more improbable, what stopped punks from smashing the machines and stealing all the beer?  Not one would still be standing in his old Phili neighborhood.Finally, he couldn't stand it any longer, he had to ask his Japanese hosts what the story was here.  Upon hearing the question they looked at him a little strangely, not sure they understood the question, and then after finally assuring themselves that they heard correctly, their answer was simple:  "Because they know they're not supposed to."This was a uniquely cultural answer that my colleague didn't at first understand.  Of course they know they're not supposed to, all kids all over the world know they're not supposed to, but the difference in Japan is that kids believe it - at least far, far more than believe it in many other parts of the world.  The difference is the unique culture.This issue of culture was mentioned in some of the answers, but not highlighted much.  To me, the unique culture is a huge reason for why common crime, especially crimes against property, are so rare in Japan.  The culture of societal shame is a very powerful force.  And you don't just shame yourself.  You shame your family, your friends, your community, your business colleagues.This is why you see very public, very visible and very sincere apologies from the presidents of huge companies when their company has done something wrong and has in some way hurt or cheated their customers.  In fact an admission of guilt and a deep and sincere apology with genuine remorse can go a long way to getting the average citizen a much reduced punishment from the law.To understand this you need to understand a little about Japanese history.  Until you've been to Japan it's difficult to understand just how little livable land there is on the islands.  Probably 80%, maybe more is too mountainous to use.  So everyone is cramped into a small space and historically, trying to get along, with paper walls, meant you had to behave.  Especially in the old feudal system where a Samurai would  as soon cut your head off at a stroke if you annoyed him.  It didn't take long for societal norms of politeness, honesty, non-confrontation and so on to take hold.Japan is of course thoroughly modern today, and have whole heartedly, even enthusiastically embraced western ideas and adapted them to their culture, but the culture of shame for misdeeds has never gone away.UPDATESome have pointed out to me that there is a dark side to Japanese culture.  That the Japanese are very tribal.  That they consider themselves culturally superior to everyone else.  That they can at times be dishonest in their extraordinary politeness, as a way to mask their disapproval or even disgust of non-Japanese people and their ways.This is true.  I've witnessed it myself.  It also explains their atrocious behavior in WWII.They've also pointed out that the culture is slowly changing.  Also true.  It's slowly becoming more westernized all the time.  Including in areas relating to crime, especially among youth.  I understand that the beer machines of my example are now getting phased out due to growing issues with underage drinking.  My story above dates to the 90s.I have also been taken to task for impugning the good name of the Samurai. The Samurai lived by a well developed code of honor known as Bushido.  They didn't go around whacking the heads off of people they didn't like whenever they felt like it. Another one of those honorable culture issues.  I apologize to any Japanese I may have offended when I made a flippant remark in an attempt to make a point. Still, as in any feudal hierarchy, it wasn't in your best interest to offend the guy at the top who had the power of arms.Nonetheless, those aspects of Japanese culture that may be undesirable in other ways, those right wing elements of Japanese society that wish to return to the old days of Imperial Japan, actually reinforce the cultural prohibitions against common street crime.Japan is still among the safest countries on earth when it comes to street crime, interpersonal violence and crimes against property  (Singapore is in the same league), if not the safest.  The old culture is still strong.SOME FACTS AND FIGURESFound this interesting website that compares crime rates in different countries.Japan vs United States: Crime Facts and StatsI don't doubt that crimes such as rape are under reported in Japan.  Rape is under reported in the US too.Even if you think the Japanese under report crime, it's hard to believe they could mask differences of the magnitude reported here.ANOTHER INTERESTING LOOK AT THE QUESTIONI really like Lim Son Eng's answer:Lim Son Eng's answer to Why is Japan so safe?I don't know how true it is, but it certainly sounds very plausible, and in some sort of way, I hope it is true.  Maybe a Japanese native could comment one way or the other.
One word answer here: Culture.To expand, Japan is a society with a high degree of homogenization, little immigration, and modest income inequality. There is a long historical pattern of deference to authority, and social demands to turn violence inward (resulting in a high suicide rate). Violence directed outward is not socially acceptable.(While murder is obviously illegal in the US, killing of rival gang members and the like is often socially acceptable within those communities where violence is high. This is demonstrated in the fact that witnesses will refuse to come forward to the police). Further, conflict mitigation is critical within Japanese culture.What isn’t responsible is the tight gun ownership restrictions on the Japanese people. If a fully loaded AK showed up in every closet in Japan, right now, their homicide rate would barely budge. Accidents and suicides may be more frequent, however.